12/25. Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, as reaffirmed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in accordance with their respective obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
719. At the 32nd meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.18, sponsored by Japan and co-sponsored by Australia, Canada, Israel, New Zealand and Norway. Subsequently, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
720. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraphs 1, 5 and 7.
721. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cambodia made a statement as the concerned country.
722. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
723. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/25).
12/25. Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
21. In paragraph 9 of draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.18, the Council decided to extend by one year the mandate of the special procedure of human rights in Cambodia, and requested the Special Rapporteur to report on the implementation of his mandate to the Council at its fifteenth session and to engage in a constructive manner with the Government of Cambodia for the further improvement of the situation of human rights in the country.
22. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $56,200 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to provide for travel of the Special Rapporteur and OHCHR staff, and for general operating expenses during missions undertaken by the Special Rapporteur.
23. The requirements to implement activities in response to the draft resolution have been included under the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional resources would arise from adoption of the draft resolution.
12/119. The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
24. In paragraphs (a) and (b), of draft decision A/HRC/12/L.22, the Council decided to request OHCHR:
(a) To assist the independent expert on the effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights in the implementation of the activities envisaged in Council resolution 11/5;
(b) To allocate sufficient budgetary resources for the implementation of the activities envisaged in its resolution 11/5, including the organization and holding of regional stakeholder consultations on the draft general guidelines on foreign debt and human rights during the present term of the mandate holder (i.e., before the end of that term on 30 April 2011).
25. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $603,400 would be required to implement activities, under section 2 (General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management) for conference services and interpretation services during regional consultations ($201,800); section 23 (Human Rights) for travel of experts, participants and staff and consultant services for five regional stakeholder consultations, to be held before April 2011 ($393,600); and section 28 E (Administration, Geneva) for conference services ($8,800). Since the exact venues for the regional consultations are not known at this time, four assumed venues have been used for costing purposes. In that regard, the estimates do not include other costs usually incurred during the holding of regional meetings, such as rental of conference facilities, special security arrangements and miscellaneous expenses.
26. The requirements to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution have not been included under the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. Although it is anticipated that a total additional amount of $603,400 would be required for the biennium 2010–2011, no additional resources are requested, at this time under the regular budget. OHCHR will seek to fund the activities from extra budgetary resources, if available. In the event that sufficient extra budgetary resources are not available to fund the activities, the Secretariat will identify areas under the regular budget from which resources can be redeployed to meet the requirements within the provisions proposed for sections 2, 23 and 28E for the biennium 2010–2011.
27. The Council decisions and resolutions adopted by the Council at its tenth, eleventh and twelfth sessions have resulted in additional resources in the 2010–2011 biennium which, although they have been proposed by the Secretariat to be met within provisions proposed under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011, will raise the issue of whether the proposals for new additional resources can be accommodated. It will therefore only be known during implementation of the 2010–2011 programme of work on which source of funding will be utilized to fund the activities called for in the draft resolution.
28. With regard to paragraph (b), attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 62/236 of 22 December 2007, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
12/28. Follow -up to the tenth special session of the Human Rights Council on the impact of the global economic and financial crises on the universal realization and effective enjoyment of human rights
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia

