12/26. Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Acknowledging that peace and security, development and human rights are the pillars of the United Nations system,
Reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Somalia,
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
724. At the 32nd meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.29/Rev.1, sponsored by Nigeria and co-sponsored by Norway. Subsequently, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia (on behalf of Arab Group), the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Yemen joined the sponsors.
725. At the same meeting, the representative of Somalia made a statement as the concerned country.
726. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
727. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/26).
12/26. Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
36. In paragraphs 10, 11 and 13, of draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.29, the Council:
(a) Decided to renew the mandate of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in Somalia for a period of one year, with a view to maximizing the provision and flow of technical assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights in order to support the Transitional Federal Government and regional authorities to ensure respect for human rights and strengthen the human rights regime in its work to complete the outstanding task of the transitional mandate, and requested the independent expert to submit a report on the status of implementation of technical cooperation inside Somalia to the Council at its thirteenth and fifteenth sessions;
(b) Encouraged the independent expert to devote, in the fulfilment of his mandate, specific attention to building the effective capacity of the rule of law, the harmonization of laws, appropriate mechanisms to address impunity and the training of Somali security personnel on international human rights standards, also paying close attention to all human rights, including economic, social and cultural rights, the right to adequate food, the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health and the right to education;
(c) Requested the Secretary-General to provide the independent expert with all the human, technical and financial assistance necessary to carry out his mandate.
37. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $127,800 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) during the mandated period to implement the activities envisaged.
38. The related requirements for travel of the independent expert and OHCHR staff and general operating expenses during field missions have been included in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional provisions would be required as a result of adoption of the draft resolution by the Council.
39. With regard to paragraph 13, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 62/236 of 22 December 2007, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Annex IV

Documents issued for the twelfth session
Documents issued in the general series

Symbol

Agenda item



A/HRC/12/1 and Corr.1

1

Annotations to the agenda for the twelfth session of the Human Rights Council: note by the Secretary-General

Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights

A/HRC/12/L.30/Rev.1

3

