12/20. Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners in Myanmar
The Human Rights Council,
1. Expresses grave concern at the recent conviction and sentencing of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and calls for her immediate and unconditional release;
2. Calls upon the Government of Myanmar:
(a) To release all political prisoners immediately and unconditionally, enabling them to participate fully in the 2010 elections;
(b) To engage in a genuine process of open dialogue and national reconciliation with the full participation of representatives of all political parties and ethnic groups;
(c) To create, through the above-mentioned and other national measures, the conditions for inclusive, transparent and credible democratic elections, in accordance with international standards.
31st meeting 2 October 2009 [Adopted without a vote. See part II, chap. IV.]
Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners in Myanmar
193. At the 30th and 31st meetings, on 1 and 2 October 2009, the representative of Sweden (on behalf of the European Union) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.32, sponsored by the European Union and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Chile, Iceland, Maldives, Mauritius, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
194. At the 31st meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representatives of China, Cuba, Indonesia, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), the Philippines and the Russian Federation made general comments dissociating their delegations from the consensus in relation to the draft resolution.
195. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the concerned country.
196. At the same meeting, the representative of India made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote dissociating the delegation from the consensus in relation to the draft resolution.
197. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/20).
198. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
199. At the 32nd meeting, on 2 October, the representatives of Cambodia, Thailand and Viet Nam made general remarks in relation to the adopted resolution.
Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners in Myanmar

