12/19. Draft guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Stressing that respect for all human rights, which are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated, is of crucial importance for all policies and programmes to fight extreme poverty at the local and national levels,
Draft guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights
152. At the 31st meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of France introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.30/Rev.1, sponsored by France and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Chile, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Brazil, Iceland, Mauritius, Mexico, Thailand and Turkey joined the sponsors.
153. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/19).
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
154. At the 31st meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of Cuba introduced draft decision A/HRC/12/L.22, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua, the Philippines, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Senegal joined the sponsors.
155. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
156. At the same meeting, the representative of France (on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council) made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
157. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of France (on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council), a recorded vote was taken on draft decision A/HRC/12/L.22. The draft decision was adopted by 31 votes in favour, 13 against, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Mauritius, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay;
Against:
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, France, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America;
Abstaining:
Mexico, Norway.
158. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter II, decision 12/119.
Draft guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights

