12/7. Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling Council resolution 8/13 of 18 June 2008, in which the Council requested the Human Rights Council Advisory Committee to formulate a draft set of principles and guidelines for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members,
Welcoming the open-ended consultation on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, organized by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on 15 January 2009, and noting with appreciation its report based on the collection of information on the measures that Governments have taken in this regard (A/HRC/10/62),
1. Expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Committee for the timely submission of the draft set of principles and guidelines for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, contained in the annex to its recommendation 3/1 (see A/HRC/AC/3/2) to the Council;
2. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to collect the views of relevant actors, including Governments, observers of the United Nations, relevant United Nations bodies, specialized agencies and programmes, non-governmental organizations, scientists and medical experts, as well as representatives of persons affected by leprosy and their family members, on the draft set of principles and guidelines, and to make those views available to the Advisory Committee;
3. Requests the Advisory Committee to finalize the draft set of principles and guidelines taking into full consideration the views of relevant actors referred to in paragraph 2 above, for submission to the Council by its fifteenth session;
4. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
30th meeting 1 October 2009 [Adopted without a vote. See part II, chap. III.]
Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members
111. At the 30th meeting, on 1 October 2009, the representative of Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.17, sponsored by Japan and co-sponsored by Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Indonesia, Israel, Nicaragua, Norway, Paraguay, the Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador, Ireland, Italy, Madagascar, Mali, Nepal, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
112. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan orally revised the draft resolution by modifying the title, the first and second preambular paragraphs and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
113. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/7).
Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members

