12/1. Open-ended intergovernmental working group on the review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the Charter of the United Nations,
Recalling also the relevant provisions of the 2005 World Summit Outcome, in which the General Assembly underlined its resolve to strengthen the human rights mechanisms and institutions of the United Nations,
Recalling further General Assembly resolution 60/251 of 15 March 2006, in particular paragraph 16, in which the Assembly decided that the Council should review its work and functioning five years after its establishment and report back to the Assembly,
Recalling Council resolutions 5/1 and 5/2 of 18 June 2007, as well as General Assembly resolution 62/219 of 22 December 2007, including the annexes and appendices thereto,
1. Decides to establish an open-ended intergovernmental working group with the mandate to review the work and functioning of the Council;
2. Also decides that the working group will hold two sessions for five working days each, in Geneva, after its fourteenth session;
3. Requests the President of the Council to chair the working group;
4. Also requests the President to undertake transparent and all-inclusive consultations prior to working group sessions on the modalities of the review, and to keep the Council informed thereof;
5. Requests the Secretary-General to present a report to the Council at its fifteenth session on how to improve conference and secretariat services for the Council;
6. Requests the working group to report to the Council at its seventeenth session on the progress achieved in the implementation of the present resolution;
7. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the working group with all the necessary resources and facilities in order for it to carry out its mandate.
30th meeting
Open-ended intergovernmental working group on the review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council
38. At the 30th meeting, on 1 October 2009, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.28, sponsored by the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bangladesh, Cuba, Nigeria (on behalf of the African Group), Pakistan, the Philippines, Serbia and Singapore. Subsequently, Belarus, Brazil, China, India, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Peru, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam joined the sponsors.
39. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 5.
40. Also at the same meeting, the representative of France, on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
41. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
42. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/1).
Open-ended intergovernmental working group on the review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council

A/HRC/12/L.29/Rev.1

10

