12/21. Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that everyone is entitled to the rights and freedoms set forth therein, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,
Guided by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which reaffirms, inter alia, the solemn commitment of all States to fulfil their obligations to promote universal respect for, and observance and protection of, all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all in accordance with the Charter, other instruments relating to human rights, and international law, and that the universal nature of these rights is beyond question,
Reiterating that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated, interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and that all human rights must be treated in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis, and that, while the significance of national and regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne in mind, all States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, have the duty to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Recognizing that all cultures and civilizations in their traditions, customs, religions and beliefs share a common set of values that belong to humankind in its entirety, and that those values have made an important contribution to the development of human rights norms and standards,
1. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to convene, in 2010, a workshop for an exchange of views on how a better understanding of traditional values of humankind underpinning international human rights norms and standards can contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with the participation of representatives from all interested States, regional organizations, national human rights institutions and civil society, as well as experts selected with due consideration given to the appropriate representation of different civilizations and legal systems;
2. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to present to the Council a summary of the discussions held at the workshop in conformity with the programme of work of the Council.
Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
696. At the 31st meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.13/Rev.1, sponsored by the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), China, Singapore and Sri Lanka. Subsequently, Algeria, Bangladesh, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Madagascar, Malaysia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Viet Nam and Zambia joined the sponsors.
697. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 1.
698. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) and China made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
699. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
700. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Chile, France (on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Senegal and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
701. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Norway, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.13/Rev.1. The draft resolution was adopted by 26 votes in favour, 15 against, with 6 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour
Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Zambia;
Against
Belgium, Chile, France, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America;
Abstaining:
Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Ghana, Ukraine, Uruguay.
702. For the text as orally revised and adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/21.
703. At the same meeting, the representatives of Nigeria and Ukraine made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
704. At the 31st and 32nd meetings, on 2 October, the representatives of Australia (also on behalf of Canada and New Zealand), Cuba and Switzerland made general remarks in relation to the adopted resolution.
12/21. Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
17. In paragraphs 1 and 2 of draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.13, the Council requested:
(a) The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to convene, within existing resources, in 2010, a workshop for an exchange of views on how a better understanding of traditional values of humankind in conformity with international human rights law can contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with the participation of representatives from all interested States Members of the United Nations, regional organizations, national human rights institutions and civil society, as well as experts selected with due consideration given to the appropriate representation of different civilizations and legal systems;
(b) The Office of the High Commissioner to present to the Council a summary of the discussions held at the workshop in conformity with the programme of the Council.
18. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $197,000 would be required to implement activities, under section 2 (General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management) ($114,400); section 23 (Human Rights) ($81,000); and section 28 E (Administration, Geneva) ($1,600).
19. The requirements to implement the activities proposed in the draft resolution have not been included under the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. Although it is anticipated that a total additional amount of $197,000 would be required for the biennium 2010–2011, no additional resources are requested at this time, as the Secretariat will seek to identify areas from which resources can be redeployed to meet the requirements within the provisions proposed for sections 2, 23 and 28E for the biennium 2010–2011.
20. With regard to paragraph 1, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 62/236 of 22 December 2007, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind

A/HRC/12/L.14/Rev.1

3

