12/5. Protection of the human rights of civilians in armed conflict
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its resolution 9/9 of 24 September 2008 on the protection of the human rights of civilians in armed conflict,
Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the outcome of the expert consultation on the protection of the human rights of civilians in armed conflict (A/HRC/11/31),
1. Invites the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to convene, within the parameters set forth in paragraph 8 of Council resolution 9/9, a second expert consultation on the issue of protecting the human rights of civilians in armed conflict, with a view to enabling the completion of the consultations on this issue, and requests the Office of the High Commissioner to prepare a report on the outcome of the consultation, in the form of a summary of discussions, prior to its fourteenth session;
2. Decides to continue the consideration of this question at its fourteenth session in conformity with the provisions of resolution 9/9.
30th meeting 1 October 2009 [Adopted without a vote. See part II, chap. III.]
Protection of the human rights of civilians in armed conflicts
106. At the 30th meeting, on 1 October 2009, the representative of Egypt introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.15, sponsored by Egypt. Subsequently, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Burkina Faso and Costa Rica joined the sponsors.
107. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/5).
Human rights of migrants: migration and human rights of the child
108. At the 30th meeting, on 1 October 2009, the representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.16, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Costa Rica, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Indonesia, Paraguay, Peru and Turkey. Subsequently, Algeria, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Kenya, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
109. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraphs 4 and 5.
110. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/6).
Protection of the human rights of civilians in armed conflict

