12/18. The adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, particularly with regard to the question of the enjoyment of all human rights, including civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights and the right to development,
The adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights
148. At the 31st meeting, on 2 October 2009, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.4/Rev.1, sponsored by the Group of African States. Subsequently, Brazil, China, Cuba and Turkey joined the sponsors.
149. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, France (on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
150. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
151. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 12/18).
12/18. The adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights
7. In paragraph 5 of draft resolution A/HRC/12/L.4, the Council decided to hold a panel discussion on the adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights at its thirteenth session, with equitable geographic and gender participation of relevant experts and representatives of civil society, with a view to making concrete recommendations and proposals on adequate measures to control, reduce and eradicate these phenomena.
8. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $18,000 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) for experts from various regions to participate in a one-day panel discussion.
9. The requirements to implement activities in response to the draft resolution have not been included under the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. Although it is anticipated that a total additional amount of $18,000 would be required for the biennium 2010–2011, no additional resources are requested at this time, as the Secretariat will seek to identify areas from which resources can be redeployed to meet the requirements within the provisions proposed for section 23 for the biennium 2010–2011.
The adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights

