22/31. Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the commitment made by all States under the Charter of the United Nations to promote and encourage universal respect for and observance of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without distinction as to, inter alia, religion or belief,
Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief
894. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.40, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and co-sponsored by Bahrain, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, Cuba and Thailand. Subsequently, Australia, Montenegro and Senegal joined the sponsors.
895. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, orally revised the draft resolution.
896. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, Italy and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
897. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
898. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/31).
899. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief
