22/15. Contribution of parliaments to the work of the Human Rights Council and its universal periodic review
The Human Rights Council,
Acknowledging the crucial role that parliaments play in, inter alia, translating international commitments into national policies and laws, and hence in contributing to the fulfilment by each State Member of the United Nations of its human rights obligations and commitments and to the strengthening of the rule of law,
Considering that the Human Rights Council and parliaments stand to gain considerably from exploring possible synergies to ensure that the universal periodic review has the greatest impact at the national level,
Taking note of the successive resolutions adopted by the General Assembly since 2010, in particular its resolutions 65/123 of 13 December 2010 and 66/261 of 29 May 2012, in which the Assembly recognized the importance of continued parliamentary support for the work of the Human Rights Council and encouraged the Inter-Parliamentary Union, as the world organization of national parliaments, to strengthen its contribution to the Human Rights Council, particularly with regard to the universal periodic review,
1. Decides to convene, at its twenty-third session, a panel discussion on the contribution of parliaments to the work of the Human Rights Council and its universal periodic review;
2. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to organize the panel discussion from within existing resources, and to liaise with the Inter-Parliamentary Union, States Members of the United Nations and relevant United Nations bodies and agencies, as well as with civil society, including non-governmental organizations, and national human rights institutions, with a view to ensuring their participation;
3. Also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to prepare a conference room paper on the outcome of the panel discussion in the form of a summary.
48th meeting
Contribution of parliaments to the work of the Human Rights Council and its universal periodic review
315. At the 48th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of Ecuador introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.21, sponsored by Argentina, Ecuador, Italy, Maldives, Morocco, Romania and Spain and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Guatemala, Honduras, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Burkina Faso, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Malta, Montenegro, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Senegal, Slovenia, the United States of America, Ukraine, Zimbabwe and the State of Palestine joined the sponsors.
316. At the same meeting, the representative of Ecuador orally revised the draft resolution.
317. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
318. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/15).
Contribution of parliaments to the work of the Human Rights Council and its universal periodic review
