22/25. Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolution S-9/1, adopted on 12 January 2009, and resolution S-12/1, adopted on 16 October 2010, in follow-up of the human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,[37]
Recalling further the relevant rules and principles of international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law, in particular the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, which is applicable to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
1. Renews its recommendation that the General Assembly remain apprised of the matter until it is satisfied that appropriate action with regard to implementing the recommendations contained in the report of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict is taken at the domestic or international level in order to ensure justice for victims and accountability for perpetrators, and to remain also ready to consider whether additional action within its powers is required in the interests of justice;
2. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
49th meeting
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
859. At the 49th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.41, sponsored by Bahrain, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the State of Palestine and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Honduras and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Cape Verde, Nicaragua and Senegal joined the sponsors.
860. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
861. At the same meeting, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
862. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the State of Palestine made a statement as the State concerned.
863. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
864. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
865. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 43 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions.[63]
866. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/25.
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
