22/20. Freedom of religion or belief
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 36/55 of 25 November 1981, by which the General Assembly proclaimed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,
Recalling also article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant human rights provisions,
Recalling further Human Rights Council resolution 19/8 of 22 March 2012, and other resolutions adopted by the Council, the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights, on the freedom of religion or belief or the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief,
Freedom of religion or belief
228. At the 49th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.9, sponsored by Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Georgia, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, Peru, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Andorra, Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Cape Verde, Colombia, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, South Sudan, Thailand, Turkey and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
229. At the same meeting, the representatives of Pakistan and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
230. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
231. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/20).
Freedom of religion or belief
