22/28. Human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Recalling also the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and affirming that these human rights instruments must be respected in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
Recalling further relevant resolutions of the Human Rights Council,
Taking note of the recent reports of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967, as well as of other relevant recent reports of the Human Rights Council,
Aware of the responsibility of the international community to promote human rights and ensure respect for international law,
Human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem
874. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.44, sponsored by Bahrain, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the State of Palestine and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Cape Verde, Nicaragua and Senegal joined the sponsors.
875. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
876. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
877. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 46 votes to 1.
878. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/28.
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission to investigate the implications of the Israeli Settlements on the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of the Palestinian People throughout the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem
879. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.45, sponsored by Bahrain, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the State of Palestine and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Ireland, Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Senegal, Slovenia and Sweden joined the sponsors.
880. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, orally revised the draft resolution.
881. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
882. At the same meeting, the Council was informed that Ireland had withdrawn its co-sponsorship.
883. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of the Czech Republic, Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
884. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 45 votes to 1.
885. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/29.


Human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem
