22/30. Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 56/266 of 27 March 2002, in which the Assembly endorsed the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,
Recalling also all previous resolutions of the General Assembly on this matter, and underlining the need for States to implement their national plans of action to combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,
Recalling further all its previous resolutions and those of the Commission on Human Rights, in particular Human Rights Council resolutions 1/5 of 30 June 2006 and 11/12 of 18 June 2009, in which the Council renewed and extended the mandate of the Intergovernmental Working Group,
Underlining that the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance remains a solid basis and the only instructive outcome of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance for the combating of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,
1. Takes note of the efforts made by the Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action in its constructive work aimed at the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the outcome document of the Durban Review Conference;
2. Decides to extend the mandate of the Intergovernmental Working Group for a period of three years;
3. Also decides to remain seized of this important issue under the relevant agenda item.
50th meeting
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
888. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.26, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Guatemala, Honduras and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Colombia and Indonesia joined the sponsors.
889. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
890. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
891. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
892. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 34 votes to 1, with 12 abstentions.
893. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/30.
