22/33. Open-ended intergovernmental working group to consider the possibility of elaborating an international regulatory framework on the regulation, monitoring and oversight of the activities of private military and security companies
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling all previous resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination,

Recalling also Human Rights Council resolution 15/26 of 1 October 2010, establishing the open-ended intergovernmental working group to consider the possibility of elaborating an international regulatory framework on the regulation, monitoring and oversight of the activities of private military and security companies,

Welcoming the outcome of the first and second sessions of the open-ended intergovernmental working group, held from 23 to 27 May 2011 and from 13 to 17 August 2012, respectively, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 15/26,

1. Decides to extend the mandate of the open-ended intergovernmental working group for a further period of two years in order for it to undertake and fulfil the mandate as outlined in paragraph 77 of its report,[46]

2. Also decides that the open-ended intergovernmental working group shall present its recommendations to the Human Rights Council at its thirtieth session;

3. Affirms the importance of providing the open-ended intergovernmental working group with the expertise and expert advice necessary to fulfil its mandate and, in this context, decides that the working group shall invite experts and all relevant stakeholders to participate in its work, including members of the Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the right of peoples to self-determination;

4. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide the open-ended intergovernmental working group with all the financial and human resources necessary for the fulfilment of its mandate.

50th meeting

Open-ended intergovernmental working group to consider the possibility of elaborating an international regulatory framework on the regulation, monitoring and oversight of the activities of private military and security companies
252. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.29, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, the Russian Federation joined the sponsors.
253. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
254. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, and Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
255. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
256. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
257. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 31 votes to 11, with 5 abstentions.
258. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/33.
259. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Japan and Switzerland made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Open-ended intergovernmental working group to consider the possibility of elaborating an international regulatory framework on the regulation, monitoring and oversight of the activities of private military and security companies
