22/22. Prevention of genocide
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, as well as other relevant international instruments,

Prevention of genocide
235. At the 49th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Armenia introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.30, sponsored by Armenia and co-sponsored by Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Cambodia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Rwanda, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, the Congo, Chile, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, South Sudan, Spain, Tanzania, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
236. At the same meeting, the representative of Armenia orally revised the draft resolution.
237. Also at the same meeting, the President announced that amendments A/HRC/22/L.33–L.39 and A/HRC/22/L.52–L.54 to this draft resolution had been withdrawn.
238. At the same meeting, the representatives of Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
239. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
240. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/22).
Protection of the family
241. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Egypt introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.25, sponsored by Bangladesh, Egypt, Mauritania, Morocco, Qatar, the Russian Federation, Tunisia, Uganda and Zimbabwe and co-sponsored by Jordan, Libya, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, Angola, Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Central African Republic, China, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jamaica, Kenya, Namibia, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), South Sudan and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.
242. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt stated that the sponsors and the co-sponsors decided to postpone the consideration of this draft resolution to a later stage.
Prevention of genocide
A/HRC/22/L.31 and Rev.1
4
