22/1. Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant instruments,
Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
71. At the 47th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.1/Rev.1, sponsored by the United States of America and co-sponsored by Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Albania, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and New Zealand joined the sponsors.
72. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Ecuador, India, Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Montenegro, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Switzerland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
73. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Sri Lanka made a statement as the country concerned.
74. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
75. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea and Thailand made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
76. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Pakistan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 25 votes to 13, with 8 abstentions.
77. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/1.
78. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Maldives made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
