22/6. Protecting human rights defenders
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Guided also by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant instruments,

Recalling General Assembly resolution 53/144 of 9 December 1998, by which the Assembly adopted by consensus the Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms annexed to that resolution, and reiterating the importance of the Declaration and its promotion and implementation,

Recalling also the continued validity and application of all the provisions of the above-mentioned Declaration,

Protecting human rights defenders
185. At the 47th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of Norway introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.13, sponsored by Norway and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Benin, Djibouti, Ghana, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
186. At the same meeting, the representative of Norway orally revised the draft resolution.
187. Also at the same meeting, the Russian Federation withdrew its amendments A/HRC/22/L.46, A/HRC/22/L.47, A/HRC/22/L.48, A/HRC/22/L.49 and A/HRC/22/L.50 to this draft resolution.
188. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution. The representative of Ethiopia also made general comments in relation to the draft resolution, disassociating the delegation from the consensus on operative paragraphs 8 and 9 of the draft resolution as orally revised.
189. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/6).
Protecting human rights defenders
A/HRC/22/L.14 and Rev.1
3
