22/32. Rights of the child: the right of the child to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health
The Human Rights Council,
Emphasizing that the Convention on the Rights of the Child constitutes the standard in the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, and bearing in mind the importance of the Optional Protocols thereto, as well as other human rights instruments,

Rights of the child: the right of the child to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health

243. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, and Uruguay, on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States with the exception of El Salvador, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.27/Rev.1, sponsored by Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, and Uruguay, on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States with the exception of El Salvador, and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Angola, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, Croatia, Georgia, Iceland, Monaco, Montenegro, San Marino, Thailand and Turkey. Subsequently, Australia, Burkina Faso, the Congo, Japan, Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Norway, Serbia, South Africa, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
244. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, and Uruguay, on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States with the exception of El Salvador, orally revised the draft resolution.
245. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
246. At the same meeting, the representative of Mauritania introduced oral amendments to the draft resolution as orally revised, proposing to insert a new sentence at the end of operative paragraph 5 and to add a new paragraph after operative paragraph 47.
247. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and Libya made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised and the proposed amendments.
248. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the amendment to draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.27/Rev.1 as orally revised. The amendment was rejected by 27 votes to 10, with 10 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, United Arab Emirates
Against:
Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Germany, Guatemala, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Abstaining:
Angola, Benin, Botswana, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Kenya, Maldives, Sierra Leone, Uganda
249. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Mauritania, also on behalf of Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Djibouti, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Yemen and the State of Palestine, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating the delegations from the consensus in relation to the fourth and eighth preambular paragraphs of the draft resolution.
250. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/32).
251. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Chile made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Rights of the child: the right of the child to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health
