22/23. Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
The Human Rights Council,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant international human rights instruments,

Recalling Human Rights Council resolutions 16/9 of 24 March 2011 and 19/12 of 22 March 2012, General Assembly resolution 67/182 of 20 December 2012 and all previous resolutions of the Assembly on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, and regretting the lack of cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Iran with the requests of the Council and the Assembly made in those resolutions,

Welcoming the report and recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran submitted to the Human Rights Council,[35] and expressing serious concern at the developments noted in that report as well as the lack of access permitted to the Special Rapporteur to travel to the Islamic Republic of Iran,

Recalling Human Rights Council resolutions 5/1, on the institution-building of the Council, and 5/2, on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that mandate holders are to discharge their duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,

1. Decides to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran for a further period of one year, and requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a report on the implementation of his mandate to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-fifth session and to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session;

2. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur and to permit access to visit the country as well as to provide all information necessary to allow the fulfilment of the mandate;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with the resources necessary to fulfil the mandate.

49th meeting

Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
293. At the 49th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Sweden introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.22, sponsored by Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Monaco joined the sponsors.
294. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Pakistan, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
295. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the country concerned.
296. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
297. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
298. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Pakistan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 26 votes to 2, with 17 abstentions.
299. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/23.
Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
