22/24. Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
The Human Rights Council,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,

Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
300. At the 49th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Morocco introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.31/Rev.1, sponsored by Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates and co-sponsored by Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Cape Verde, Georgia, Iceland, Maldives, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Andorra, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Yemen joined the sponsors.
301. At the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally revised the draft resolution.
302. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Switzerland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
303. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the country concerned.
304. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
305. At the same meeting, the representatives of Indonesia and Pakistan made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
306. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 41 votes to 1, with 5 abstentions.
307. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/24.
308. At the same meeting, the representative of Argentina made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.


Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
