22/19. Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the other relevant international human rights treaties,
Confirming that it is the primary responsibility of States to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Recognizing the challenges facing Libya in laying the foundations for transitional justice and national reconciliation,
Reaffirming its strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Libya,
Recognizing the efforts made by Libya in building the basis for democracy, the rule of law and human rights,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 60/251 of 15 March 2006, and Assembly resolution 66/11 of 18 November 2011 on the restoration of the rights of membership of Libya in the Human Rights Council,
Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights
931. At the 48th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representatives of Libya and Morocco introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.12, sponsored by Libya and Morocco and co-sponsored by Australia, Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), France, Gabon (on behalf of the Group of African States), Georgia, Italy, Maldives, Portugal, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland and Turkey joined the sponsors.
932. At the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally revised the draft resolution.
933. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
934. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/19).
Technical assistance and capacity-building in human rights in Haiti
935. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced draft President’s statement A/HRC/22/L.55.
936. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil, on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, made general comments in relation to the draft President’s statement.
937. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft President’s statement. The Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft President’s statement.
938. At the same meeting, the representative of Haiti made a statement as the country concerned.
939. Also at the same meeting, the draft President’s statement was adopted by the Council (for the text of the President’s statement, see part one, chap. III, PRST/22/2).
Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights
