22/12. The negative impact of the non-repatriation of funds of illicit origin to the countries of origin on the enjoyment of human rights, and the importance of improving international cooperation
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration on the Right to Development, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant human rights instruments,

The negative impact of the non-repatriation of funds of illicit origin to the countries of origin on the enjoyment of human rights, and the importance of improving international cooperation
212. At the 48th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of Tunisia, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.24, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of) and Egypt, on behalf of the Group of Arab States. Subsequently, Cuba, Indonesia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
213. At the same meeting, the representative of Tunisia, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
214. Also at the same meeting, the representative the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
215. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
216. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
217. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 32 votes to 2, with 13 abstentions.
218. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/12.
219. At the 50th meeting, on 22 March 2013, the representative of Switzerland made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
High-level panel discussion on the question of the death penalty
220. At the 47th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of France introduced draft decision A/HRC/22/L.28, sponsored by Benin, Costa Rica, France, Mongolia and the Republic of Moldova and co-sponsored by Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Algeria, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Hungary, Latvia, Malta, Namibia, Norway, San Marino, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Netherlands, Togo and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
221. At the same meeting, the representative of France orally revised the draft decision.
222. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Botswana, Costa Rica, Germany, India, Malaysia, Pakistan, Spain and Switzerland made general comments in relation to the draft decision.
223. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
224. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
225. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Botswana, a recorded vote was taken on the draft decision as orally revised. The draft decision, as orally revised, was adopted by 28 votes to 10, with 9 abstentions.
226. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter II, decision 22/117.
227. At the 50th meeting, the representatives of Japan and Qatar, also on behalf of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
The negative impact of the non-repatriation of funds of illicit origin to the countries of origin on the enjoyment of human rights, and the importance of improving international cooperation
