22/9. The right to food
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling all previous resolutions of the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council on the right to food, as well as all resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights on the issue,

Recalling also Human Rights Council resolutions 5/1, on institution-building of the Council, and 5/2, on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that all mandate holders shall discharge their duties in accordance with these resolutions and the annexes thereto,

The right to food
196. At the 47th meeting, on 21 March 2013, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/22/L.16, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Andorra, Austria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, Congo, Croatia, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Turkey, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Angola, Australia, Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Costa Rica, Cyprus, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Eritrea, Ethiopia, France, Georgia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Japan, Lithuania, Monaco, Montenegro, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, San Marino, Senegal and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
197. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
198. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
199. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
200. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 22/9).
The right to food
