Ensuring use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in counter-terrorism and military operations in accordance with international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law
302. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.32, sponsored by Pakistan and co-sponsored by Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Switzerland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen. Subsequently, Brazil, Egypt, Nicaragua and South Africa joined the sponsors.
303. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
304. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
305. At the same meeting, the representatives of France, Germany (also on behalf of the Czech Republic), India, Ireland, the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
306. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Gabon, Indonesia, Ireland, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
France, Japan, Republic of Korea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Austria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Italy, Montenegro, Namibia, Romania, United Arab Emirates
307. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.32 was adopted by 27 votes to 6, with 14 abstentions (resolution 25/22).
308. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 2014, the representative of Cuba made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Ensuring use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in counter-terrorism and military operations in accordance with international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law
