Integrity of the judicial system
204. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.5, sponsored by the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Belarus, China, Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Tajikistan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Namibia, Nicaragua, Sierra Leone and South Africa joined the sponsors.
205. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation orally revised the draft resolution.
206. At the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
207. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
208. At the same meeting, the representatives of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
209. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
United States of America
Abstaining:
Austria, Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Maldives, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
210. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.5, as orally revised, was adopted by 27 votes to 1, with 19 abstentions (resolution 25/4).
Integrity of the judicial system
