Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
1020. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.37/Rev.1, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador, Namibia, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Angola, Cabo Verde, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
1021. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
1022. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
1023. At the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution.
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
United States of America
1024. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.37/Rev.1 was adopted by 46 votes to 1, with no abstentions (resolution 25/28).
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan: report of the Secretary-General
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
A/HRC/25/L.38 and Rev.1
7
