Protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism
219. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.11, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, the Netherlands, Peru, Slovakia, Sweden and Uruguay. Subsequently, Armenia, Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, France, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
220. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.11 was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/7).
Panel on the right to privacy in the digital age
221. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of Brazil introduced draft decision A/HRC/25/L.12, sponsored by Austria, Brazil, Germany, Liechtenstein, Mexico, Norway and Switzerland and co-sponsored by Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Tunisia and Turkey. Subsequently, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Serbia, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
222. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
223. Also at the same meeting, draft decision A/HRC/25/L.12 was adopted without a vote (decision 25/117).
Protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism
