Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
1014. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.36, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Namibia, San Marino, South Africa, Switzerland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Austria, Belarus, Brazil, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden joined the sponsors.
1015. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
1016. At the same meeting, the representative of the State of Palestine made a statement as the State concerned.
1017. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
1018. At the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution.
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
United States of America
1019. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.36 was adopted by 46 votes to 1, with no abstentions (resolution 25/27).
Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
A/HRC/25/L.37 and Rev.1
7
