Situation of human rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
362. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representatives of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.17, sponsored by Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and Japan and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Honduras, Israel, Maldives, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
363. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cuba made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
364. At the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement as the State concerned.
365. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
366. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Indonesia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
367. At the same meeting, at the request of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Against:
China, Cuba, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Abstaining:
Algeria, Congo, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa


368. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.17 was adopted by 30 votes to 6, with 11 abstentions (resolution 25/25).
369. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Viet Nam made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
A/HRC/25/L.18 and Rev.1
3
