Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights
1083. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Morocco introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.35, sponsored by Morocco and Libya and co-sponsored by Bahrain, Chad, Egypt, France, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Mauritania, Niger, Norway, Oman, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Yemen and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Japan, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Thailand and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.
1084. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally revised the draft resolution.
1085. At the same meeting, the representative of Libya made a statement as the State concerned.
1086. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
1087. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.35, as orally, was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/37).
1088. At the same meeting, the representatives of the Russian Federation and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Situation of human rights in Haiti
1089. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 2014, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced draft President’s statement A/HRC/25/L.42.
1090. Also at the same meeting, the representative of France (also on behalf of Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, France, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, the United States of America and Uruguay) made general comments in relation to the draft President’s statement.
1091. At the same meeting, the representative of Haiti made a statement as the State concerned.
1092. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft President’s statement.
1093. Also at the same meeting, draft President’s statement A/HRC/25/L.42 was adopted by the Council (PRST/25/1).










Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights: report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
Technical assistance for Libya in the field of human rights
