Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran

354. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Sweden introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.9, sponsored by Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Costa Rica, Israel, Malta, New Zealand and Saint Kitts and Nevis joined the sponsors.

355. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of France, Italy (on behalf of the European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the Republic of Moldova), Pakistan, the Russian Federation, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

356. At the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the State concerned.

357. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

358. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, China, Cuba, Japan, Republic of Korea and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

359. At the same meeting, at the request of Pakistan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Abstaining:

Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon, Kenya, Kuwait, Morocco, Namibia, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates

360. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.9 was adopted by 21 votes to 9, with 16 abstentions (resolution 25/24).

361. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil and Indonesia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.

