The continuing grave deterioration of the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic

346. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.7, sponsored by France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Maldives, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Israel, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Senegal, Switzerland and Tunisia joined the sponsors.

347. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Italy (on behalf of the European Union), Saudi Arabia, the Russian Federation and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

348. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.

349. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

350. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

351. At the same meeting, at the request of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

Abstaining:

Algeria, Congo, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Viet Nam

352. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.7 was adopted by 32 votes to 4, with 11 abstentions (resolution 25/23).

353. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Argentina made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

