The negative impact of the non-repatriation of funds of illicit origin to the countries of origin on the enjoyment of human rights, and the importance of improving international cooperation

227. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of Ethiopia, on behalf of the Group of African States, and Tunisia introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.14, sponsored by Ethiopia, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.

228. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Ethiopia, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.

229. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution.

230. At the same meeting, the representatives of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

231. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Japan, United States of America

Abstaining:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

232. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.14, as orally revised, was adopted by 33 votes to 2, with 12 abstentions (resolution 25/9).

233. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 2014, the representative of Mexico made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

