24/26From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 56/266 of 27 March 2002, in which the Assembly endorsed the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,
Recalling also General Assembly resolution 57/195 of 18 December 2002, in which the Assembly assigned responsibilities to the relevant United Nations institutions to ensure the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action at the international level,
Recalling further all previous resolutions by the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council on the comprehensive follow-up to the 2001 World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance and the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the most recent of which is Council resolution 22/30 of 22 March 2013, in which the Council underlined that the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the World Conference remains a solid basis and the only instructive outcome of the World Conference for the combating of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance at all levels,
Recalling the political declaration of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted on 22 September 2011,[55] which reaffirmed the political commitment to the full and effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the outcome document of the 2009 Durban Review Conference, and their follow-up processes at the national, regional and international levels,
From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
941. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representative of South Africa introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.25, sponsored by Gabon (on behalf of the Group of African States) and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, State of Palestine (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Thailand, Turkey and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
942. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa orally revised the draft resolution.
943. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
944. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
945. At the same meeting, the representatives of Estonia, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, Switzerland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
946. At the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 32 votes to 2 with 13 abstentions. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/26).


From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance

