24/2 Local government and human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Local government and human rights

97. At the 34th meeting, on 26 September 2013, the representative of the Republic of Korea introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.2, sponsored by Chile, Egypt, Republic of Korea and Romania and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Spain, Sri Lanka and Thailand. Subsequently, Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Djibouti, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Jordan, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Morocco, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, State of Palestine, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, United States of America and Uruguay joined the sponsors.

98. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
99. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/2).
Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery

100. At the 34th meeting, on 26 September 2013, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.3, sponsored by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and co-sponsored by Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Latvia, Luxembourg, Maldives, Netherlands, Paraguay, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Angola, Armenia, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Estonia, France, Guatemala, Honduras, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Thailand, he former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and United States of America joined the sponsors.
101. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
102. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/3).

Local government and human rights

