24/3 Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that no one shall be held in slavery or servitude and that slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms,

Recognizing the Slavery Convention of 1926, the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery of 1956 and the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29), of the International Labour Organization, as well as other relevant international instruments which prohibit all forms of slavery and call upon Governments to eradicate such practices,

Recalling that the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action strongly condemned the fact that slavery and slavery-like practices still exist today in parts of the world, and urged States to take immediate measures as a matter of priority to end such practices, which constitute flagrant violations of human rights,

Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences
66. At the 9th meeting, on 12 September 2013, the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences, Gulnara Shahinian, presented her report (A/HRC/24/43 and Add.1-2).
67. At the same meeting, the representatives of Kazakhstan and Madagascar made statements as countries concerned.
68. During the ensuing interactive dialogue, at the 9th meeting, on the same day, and the 10th meeting on 13 September 2013, the following made statements and asked the special rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba[83] (also on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Ethiopia, Gabon (on behalf of the Group of African States), Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Malaysia, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Sierra Leone, Spain, State of Palestine83 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Thailand, United Arab Emirates, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Colombia, Egypt, France, Greece, Latvia, Lebanon, Nepal, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
(c) Observer for the Holy See;
(d) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF);
(e) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(f) Observer for non-governmental organizations: International Humanist and Ethical Union.
69. At the 10th meeting, the special rapporteur answered questions and made her concluding remarks.
70. At the 11th meeting, on 13 September 2013, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of Mauritania.
Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
71. At the 17th meeting, on 18 September 2013, the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, James Anaya, presented his report (A/HRC/24/41, and Add.1–4).
72. At the same meeting, the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, Wilton Littlechild, presented the reports of the Expert Mechanism (A/HRC/24/49, 50 and 51) (see chapter V, C below).
73. At the same meeting, the Representative of the Board of Trustees of the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations, Legborsi Saro Pyagbara, made a statement.
74. At the same meeting, the representatives of the El Salvador and Namibia made statements as the countries concerned.
75. During the ensuing interactive dialogue, the following made statements and asked questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, Chile, Congo, Ecuador, Estonia, Guatemala, Malaysia, Peru, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, Mexico, Nepal, Norway, Paraguay, Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Sweden;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Colombian Commission of Jurists, France Libertés: Fondation Danielle Mitterrand, Indian Council of South America, International Indian Treaty Council, Lawyers’ Rights Watch Canada, Permanent Assembly for Human Rights, Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.
76. At the same meeting, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
77. At the same meeting, the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Expert Mechanism of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
