24/23 Strengthening efforts to prevent and eliminate child, early and forced marriage: challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as other relevant human rights instruments, including the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery,
Reaffirming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, as well as the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome documents of their review conferences,
Recalling the commitment to the full and effective implementation of and follow-up to all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council and their subsidiary bodies,
Deeply concerned that the practice of child, early and forced marriage is widespread and occurs in all regions of the world, and recognizing that it constitutes a violation, abuse or impairment of human rights, that it prevents individuals from living their lives free from all forms of violence and that it has adverse consequences on the enjoyment of human rights, such as the right to education, the right to the highest attainable standard of health, including sexual and reproductive health,
Recalling States’ human rights obligations and commitments to prevent and eliminate the practice of child, early and forced marriage, which disproportionately affects women and girls,
Deeply concerned by the impact of deep-rooted gender inequalities, norms and stereotypes, and harmful traditional practices, perceptions and customs that are obstacles to the full enjoyment of human rights, in particular of women and girls, and are among the primary causes of child, early and forced marriage,
Deeply concerned also that poverty and lack of education are drivers of the practice of child, early and forced marriage,
Recognizing that child, early and forced marriage continues to be an impediment to not only the economic, legal, health and social status of women and girls but to the development of the community as a whole, and that the empowerment of and investment in women and girls, as well as their meaningful participation in decisions that affect them, is a key factor in breaking the cycle of gender inequality and discrimination, violence and poverty and is critical for sustainable development and economic growth,
Recognizing also that the complex and challenging nature of child, early and forced marriage necessitates the collective efforts of Governments, lawmakers, judicial authorities, law enforcement officials, traditional and religious leaders, civil society, media, the private sector and other relevant stakeholders to address the root causes of this practice that exists in different economic, social and cultural settings,
Recognizing further that the persistence of child, early and forced marriage contributes to impairing the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and sustainable and inclusive economic growth and social cohesion, and that therefore the elimination of child, early and force marriage should be considered in the discussion of the post-2015 development agenda,
1. Decides to convene, at its twenty-sixth session, a panel discussion on preventing and eliminating child, early and forced marriage, with a particular focus on challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps, and requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to liaise with States, relevant United Nations bodies, agencies, funds and programmes, relevant special procedures, civil society, including relevant children and youth organizations, and national human rights institutions, with a view to ensuring their participation and also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to prepare a summary report on the panel discussion;
2. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to prepare a report, in consultation with States, United Nations bodies, agencies, funds and programmes, civil society and other relevant stakeholders, on preventing and eliminating child, early and forced marriage, with a particular focus on challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps, to be submitted to the Human Rights Council prior to its twenty-sixth session, and to guide the panel discussion.
37th meeting

Strengthening efforts to prevent and eliminate child, early and forced marriage: challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps

195. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representative of Sierra Leone introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.34/Rev.1, sponsored by Argentina, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, Honduras, Italy, Maldives, Montenegro, Netherlands, Poland, Sierra Leone, Switzerland and Uruguay and co-sponsored by Albania, Angola, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bulgaria, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South Sudan, Spain, State of Palestine, Sweden, Tajikistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America and Yemen. Subsequently, Algeria, Andorra, Bahamas, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Congo, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, El Salvador , Eritrea, France, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Lithuania, Madagascar, Monaco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Senegal, Serbia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Uganda, Ukraine, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zambia joined the sponsors.
196. At the same meeting the representative of Sierra Leone orally revised the draft resolution.
197. At the same meeting, the representative of the India made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

198. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

199. At the same meeting, the draft resolution as orally revised was adopted without a vote (for the text of the resolution, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/23).

Impact of arms transfers on human rights in armed conflict

200. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representatives of Ecuador, Costa Rica and Peru introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.32/Rev.1, sponsored by Costa Rica, Ecuador and Peru and co-sponsored by Angola, Chile, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Guatemala, Libya, Mexico, Panama, Switzerland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Argentina, Brazil, Congo, Djibouti, Kenya, Liechtenstein, Morocco, Namibia, Nigeria, Republic of Moldova, Sierra Leone, State of Palestine and Togo joined the sponsors.
201. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador, Costa Rica and Peru orally revised the draft resolution.
202. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

203. At the same meeting the representatives of Estonia, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, Indonesia, Japan, Pakistan the Republic of Korea and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

204. At the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 42 votes to one with 4 abstentions. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/35).
Panel discussion on the safety of journalists

205. At the 34th meeting, on 26 September 2013, the representative of Austria introduced draft decision A/HRC/24/L.13, sponsored by Austria, Brazil, Morocco, Tunisia and Switzerland and co-sponsored by Australia, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Timor-Leste, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay and Yemen. Subsequently, Albania, Angola, Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Cape Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, El Salvador, Kenya, Namibia, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, State of Palestine (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
206. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
207. At the same meeting, the draft decision was adopted without a vote (for the text of the decision, see part one, chapter II, decision 24/116).

High-level panel on the identification of good practices in combatting female genital mutilation

208. At the 35th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft decision A/HRC/24/L.11, sponsored by Chile, Gabon (on behalf of the Group of African States) and Guatemala. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
209. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
210. At the same meeting, the draft decision was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, decision 24/117).

Strengthening efforts to prevent and eliminate child, early and forced marriage: challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps

