24/25 The Social Forum
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling all previous resolutions and decisions adopted on the Social Forum by the Commission on Human Rights and its Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, as well as by the Economic and Social Council,
The Social Forum

264. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.30, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Honduras, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Panama, Peru, Qatar, South Africa, Sri Lanka, State of Palestine, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Botswana, Colombia, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Senegal, State of Palestine (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Togo, Uruguay and Viet Nam joined the sponsors.
265. At the same meeting, the representative of Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

266. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Estonia, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are also members of the Council, Japan, Montenegro and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution, disassociating their delegations from the consensus on the draft resolution.

267. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text of the resolution, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/25).
Establishment of a special fund for the participation of civil society in the Social Forum, the Forum on Minority Issues and the Forum on Business and Human Rights

268. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the representatives of Austria, Cuba and Norway introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.16, sponsored by Austria, Cuba and Norway and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Costa Rica, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Jordan, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Spain and State of Palestine. Subsequently, Albania, Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, El Salvador, Libya, Maldives, Morocco, Nicaragua, Peru, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, United States of America, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
269. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text of the decision, see part one, chapter II, decision 24/118).
Reports of the Advisory Committee

270. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2013, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced draft President’s statement A/HRC/24/L.57.
271. At the same meeting, the President’s Statement was adopted without a vote (for the text of the statement, see part one, chapter III, PRST 24/1).
The Social Forum

