24/6 The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and recalling the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities,

Recalling Human Rights Council resolutions 6/29 of 14 December 2007 and 15/22 of 30 September 2010, and all previous resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and the Council on the realization of the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health,

Recognizing the need for States, in cooperation with international organizations and civil society, including non-governmental organizations and the private sector, to create favourable conditions at the national, regional and international levels to ensure the full and effective enjoyment of the right of everyone to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health,

Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 5/1 on institution-building of the Council, and 5/2, on the Code of Conduct for the special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that the mandate holder shall discharge his or her duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the work of the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health;

2. Decides to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, as established by the Human Rights Council in paragraph 1 of its resolution 6/29, for a further period of three years;

3. Requests all Governments to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur in the performance of the tasks and duties mandated and to give due consideration to the recommendations made by the mandate holder;

4. Encourages all Governments to give serious consideration to responding favourably to the requests made by the Special Rapporteur to visit their countries to enable the mandate holder to fulfil the mandate effectively;

5. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to provide all the resources necessary for the effective fulfilment of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur;

6. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit an annual report to the Human Rights Council and to the General Assembly covering all activities relating to the mandate with a view to maximizing the benefits of the reporting process;

7. Decides to continue its consideration of this matter under the same agenda item, in accordance with its programme of work.

34th meeting

The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health

116. At the 34th meeting, on 26 September 2013, the representative of Brazil introduced draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.8, sponsored by Brazil and co-sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Italy, Libya, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Armenia, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Iceland, India, Ireland, Jamaica, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Montenegro, Namibia, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Philippines, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo and United States of America joined the sponsors.
117. At the same meeting, the representatives of Estonia, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
118. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

119. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 24/6).

The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health

