16/34 Advisory services and technical assistance for Burundi
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and international human rights treaties,
Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Advisory services and technical assistance for Burundi
840. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.35, sponsored by Nigeria on behalf of the Group of African States.
841. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria orally revised the draft resolution.
842. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
843. At the same meeting, the representative of Burundi made a statement as the concerned country.
844. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/34).
Human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the strengthening of technical cooperation and advisory services
845. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.36, sponsored by Nigeria on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Iceland joined the sponsors.
846. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria orally revised the draft resolution.
847. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic Republic of the Congo made a statement as the concerned country.
848. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
849. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/35).
850. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland (also on behalf of Norway) made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Advisory services and technical assistance for Burundi
