16/19 Cooperation between Tunisia and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the solemn commitment of all States to fulfil their obligations to promote universal respect for and observance and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments relating to human rights and international law,
Welcoming the process of political transition that has started in Tunisia and the commitment of the transitional Government of Tunisia to fully realize the universal values of human dignity, liberty, democracy and human rights,
Acknowledging that, in spite of the rapidity with which this transition is unfolding, peace and order has prevailed in the country,
Welcoming the process of constitutional reform and the commitment to bring legislation into line with international treaty obligations, as well as the intent expressed by the transitional Government to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and the implementation of legislation,
Welcoming also the efforts of the transitional Government to release all political prisoners through a general amnesty and to bring transparency to the prison system, in particular by granting access to international and non-governmental organizations,
Welcoming further the standing invitation issued to all special procedures,
Noting the ongoing ratification process of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the first Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance,
1. Salutes the courage of the people of Tunisia and strongly supports the efforts of the transitional Government towards a swift and peaceful political transition and the full realization of human rights;
2. Takes note of the assessment mission of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to Tunisia and its report, as well as the decision, upon the invitation extended by the transitional Government, to set up a country office of the Office of the High Commissioner in Tunisia;
3. Encourages the transitional Government to continue to implement the recommendations, contained in the mission report, that it has accepted, with the support of the Office of the High Commissioner;
4. Also encourages the transitional Government to continue its efforts to ensure accountability for human rights violations;
5. Invites all parts of the United Nations system, including the Office of the High Commissioner and Member States, to assist the transitional process in Tunisia, including by supporting the mobilization of resources to tackle the economic and social challenges faced by Tunisia, in coordination with and according to the priorities set by the Government of Tunisia;
6. Commends the Tunisian people for the solidarity shown to refugees and the assistance extended to them;
7. Invites the High Commissioner to continue to cooperate with the Government of Tunisia on the matter.
Cooperation between Tunisia and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
835. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.32/Rev.1, sponsored by Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Australia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Ecuador, Honduras, Iceland, Iraq (on behalf of the Arab Group), Japan, Jordan, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Norway, Panama, Peru, the Republic of Moldova, Uruguay and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
836. At the same meeting, the representative of Hungary orally revised the draft resolution.
837. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Nigeria and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
838. At the same meeting, the representative of Tunisia made a statement as the concerned country.
839. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/19).
Cooperation between Tunisia and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
