16/32 Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolution S-9/1, adopted on 12 January 2009, and resolution S-12/1, adopted on 16 October 2009, in follow-up to the human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,
Recalling also relevant General Assembly resolutions, including resolution 64/10, adopted on 5 November 2009, and resolution 64/254, adopted on 26 February 2010, in follow-up to the report of the Fact-Finding Mission,
Recalling further the relevant rules and principles of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights law, in particular the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, which is applicable to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
Reaffirming the obligation of all parties to respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law,
Reiterating the importance of the safety and well-being of all civilians, and reaffirming the obligation to ensure the protection of civilians in armed conflict,
Stressing the need to ensure accountability for all violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law in order to prevent impunity, ensure justice, deter further violations and promote peace,
Convinced that achieving a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement of the question of Palestine, the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, is imperative for the attainment of comprehensive, just and lasting peace and stability in the Middle East,
Recalling the report of the Secretary-General submitted to the General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 6 of Assembly resolution 64/10,[39]
Recalling also the report of the Secretary-General on the status of implementation of paragraph 3 of section B of Human Rights Council resolution S-12/1,[40]
1. Takes note of the reports of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the implementation of Human Rights Council resolutions S-9/1 and S-12/1,[41] and endorses the recommendations contained therein;
2. Also takes note of the reports of the committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law to monitor and assess any domestic, legal or other proceedings undertaken by both the Government of Israel and the Palestinian side, in the light of General Assembly resolution 64/254,[42] and calls for the implementation of its conclusions;
3. Reiterates its call upon all concerned parties, including United Nations bodies, to ensure the full and immediate implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, in accordance with their respective mandates;
4. Regrets the non-cooperation by the occupying power, Israel, with the members of the committee of independent experts, and its failure to comply with the calls of the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly to conduct investigations that are independent, credible and in conformity with international standards into the serious violations of international humanitarian and international human rights law reported by the Fact-Finding Mission, and calls on all the parties to the conflict including the Palestinian side, to take into account the conclusions of the committee;
5. Welcomes the efforts made by the Government of Switzerland, in its capacity as depositary of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, to reconvene, as soon as possible, a conference of High Contracting Parties to the Fourth Geneva Convention on measures to enforce the Convention in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and to ensure its respect in accordance with common article 1, bearing in mind the statement adopted on 15 July 1999, as well as the reconvening of the conference and the declaration adopted on 5 December 2001, and recommends that the Government of Switzerland continue to pursue its efforts with the aim of resuming the above-mentioned conference before September 2011;
6. Calls upon the High Commissioner to follow up on the determination of the appropriate modalities for the establishment of an escrow fund for the provision of reparations to Palestinians who suffered loss and damage as a result of unlawful acts attributable to the State of Israel during the military operations conducted from December 2008 to January 2009, also taking into consideration Israelis who suffered loss and damage as a result of unlawful acts attributable to the Palestinian side;
7. Reiterates its call to the General Assembly to promote an urgent discussion on the future legality of the use of certain munitions, as referred to in the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, drawing on, inter alia, the expertise of the International Committee of the Red Cross;
8. Recommends that the General Assembly reconsider the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict at its sixty-sixth session, and urges the Assembly to submit that report to the Security Council for its consideration and appropriate action, including consideration of referral of the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, pursuant to article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute;
9. Also recommends that the General Assembly remain apprised of the matter until it is satisfied that appropriate action has been taken at the domestic or international level to ensure justice for victims and accountability for perpetrators, and also remain ready to consider whether additional action within its powers is required in the interests of justice;
10. Requests the Secretary-General to present a comprehensive report on the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations of the Fact-Finding Mission by all concerned parties, including United Nations bodies, in accordance with paragraph 3 of section B of Human Rights Council resolution S-12/1, to the Council at its eighteenth session;
11. Requests the High Commissioner to submit a progress report on the implementation of the present resolution to the Human Rights Council at its eighteenth session;
12. Decides to follow up on the implementation of the present resolution at its nineteenth session.
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
800. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.31, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Algeria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Iraq (on behalf of the Arab Group), Nicaragua, Palestine and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belarus and Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) joined the sponsors.
801. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
802. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement as a concerned country, and the representative of Palestine made a statement as a concerned party.
803. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
804. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.31. The draft resolution was adopted by 27 votes in favour, 3 against, with 16 abstentions.
805. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/32.
806. At the 48th meeting, the representatives of China and the Russian Federation made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict
A/HRC/16/L.32/Rev.1
10
