16/20 Follow-up to the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the incident of the humanitarian flotilla
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from the Charter and the other instruments and rules of international law is among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations,
Taking into consideration the relevant provisions of international humanitarian and human rights law,
Emphasizing the importance of the safety and well-being of all civilians, including humanitarian personnel,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 14/1 of 2 June 2010, in which the Council decided to dispatch an independent international fact-finding mission to investigate violations of human rights law and international humanitarian law resulting from the Israeli attacks on the flotilla of ships carrying humanitarian assistance,
Recalling also Human Rights Council resolution 15/1 of 29 September 2010, in which the Council endorsed the conclusions contained in the report of the independent international fact-finding mission, called upon all concerned parties to ensure the immediate implementation of the conclusions contained in the report of the fact-finding mission and requested the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to submit a report on the status of implementation of those conclusions,
Welcoming the establishment by the Secretary-General of a panel of inquiry and recalling that its work has not been completed,
1. Takes note of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;[26]
2. Regrets the non-cooperation of the occupying Power, Israel, with the independent international fact-finding mission on the Gaza flotilla incident;
3. Calls upon concerned parties to ensure the immediate implementation of the conclusions contained in the report of the fact-finding mission;
4. Encourages the panel of inquiry established by the Secretary-General to complete its work without delay;
5. Requests the High Commissioner to submit a report on the status of the implementation of paragraph 3 above to the Human Rights Council at its seventeenth session;
6. Decides to follow up the implementation of the present resolution at its seventeenth session.
Follow-up to the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the incident of the humanitarian flotilla
51. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.5, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and co-sponsored by Iraq on behalf of the Group of Arab States. Subsequently, Algeria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ireland, Malta, Nicaragua, Portugal, Slovenia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
52. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
53. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Turkey made a statement as a concerned country.
54. At the same meeting, the representative of Palestine made a statement as a concerned party.
55. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
56. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.5 as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 37 votes in favour, 1 against, with 8 abstentions.
57. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/20.
58. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of the Republic of Korea made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Follow-up to the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the incident of the humanitarian flotilla
