16/31 Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,
Reaffirming that all States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable instruments,
Recalling relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, the Human Rights Council, the Security Council and the General Assembly, reaffirming, inter alia, the illegality of the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories, including in East Jerusalem,
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
794. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.30, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Algeria, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Iraq (on behalf of the Arab Group), Luxembourg, Nicaragua, Palestine, Portugal, Sri Lanka, Switzerland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belgium, Belarus, Cyprus, Greece, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, Malta, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Norway, Spain and Sweden joined the sponsors.
795. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
796. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as a concerned country, and the representative of Palestine made a statement as a concerned party.
797. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
798. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.30. The draft resolution was adopted by 45 votes in favour, 1 against, with no abstentions.
799. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/31.
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
