16/6 Mandate of the independent expert on minority issues
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, and bearing in mind article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and other relevant existing international standards and national legislation,
Mandate of the independent expert on minority issues
183. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Austria introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.24, sponsored by Austria and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Angola, Belarus, Bulgaria, Cape Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ecuador, Gabon, Georgia, Guinea, Haiti, Iceland, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Malta, Nigeria, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Slovakia, Timor-Leste, Uganda, the United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam and Zambia joined the sponsors.
184. At the same meeting, the representative of Austria orally revised the draft resolution.
185. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
186. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/6).
187. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of South Africa made comments in relation to the resolution.
Mandate of the independent expert on minority issues
A/HRC/16/L.25/Rev.1
4
