16/7 Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming Commission on Human Rights resolution 1994/45 of 4 March 1994, in which the Commission decided to appoint a special rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences,
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences
188. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.26, sponsored by Canada and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Palestine, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Belarus, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, Honduras, Japan, Kenya, Latvia, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malta, Mauritius, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Republic of Tanzania, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zambia joined the sponsors.
189. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution.
190. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria moved to amend the draft resolution.
191. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland opposed the motion for the proposed amendment.
192. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria withdrew its proposal to amend the draft resolution.
193. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
194. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/7).
Human rights and the environment
195. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Costa Rica and Maldives introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.7, sponsored by Costa Rica, Maldives and Switzerland and co-sponsored by Austria, Germany, Honduras, Monaco, Morocco, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Slovenia and Uruguay. Subsequently, Albania, Angola, Australia, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chad, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, the Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, France, Georgia, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, the Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Montenegro, the Niger, Nigeria, Palau, Palestine, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Samoa, Senegal, Seychelles, Somalia, Spain, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia and Zimbabwe joined the sponsors.
196. At the same meeting, the representative of Maldives orally revised the draft resolution.
197. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
198. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Nigeria and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
199. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/11).
200. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representatives of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) and India made comments in relation to the resolution.
Rights of the child: a holistic approach to the protection and promotion of the rights of children working and/or living on the street
201. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Hungary (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council) and the representative of Uruguay (on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.13/Rev.1, sponsored by Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and Uruguay (on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States) and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Canada, Egypt, Japan, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
202. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary and Uruguay orally revised the draft resolution.
203. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Nigeria, Uganda and the United States of America made general comments.
204. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
205. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/12).
Freedom of religion or belief
206. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Hungary, on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.14, sponsored by Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and co-sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Costa Rica, Israel, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
207. At the same meeting, the representative of Hungary orally revised the draft resolution.
208. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria made general comments.
209. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/13).
Mandate of the independent expert on the effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
210. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.18, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Ecuador, Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Algeria, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Haiti, Lebanon, Malaysia, Nigeria, Palestine, Serbia, South Africa, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uruguay, Zambia and Zimbabwe joined the sponsors.
211. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
212. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
213. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
214. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary (on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
215. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Hungary, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.18 as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 29 votes in favour, 13 against, with 4 abstentions.
216. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/14.
Role of international cooperation in support of national efforts for the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities
217. At the 46th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Mexico and New Zealand introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.20, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Indonesia, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Latvia, Maldives, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Belgium, Brazil, Cape Verde, Cuba, Ecuador, Estonia, Ireland, Japan, Lithuania, Malaysia, Mauritius, Morocco, Namibia, Nigeria, the Philippines, Poland, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, South Africa, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, Uruguay and Zambia joined the sponsors.
218. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the draft resolution.
219. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
220. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/15).
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences
