16/3 Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that everyone is entitled to the rights and freedoms set forth therein, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,
Guided by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which reaffirms, inter alia, the solemn commitment of all States to fulfil their obligations to promote universal respect for, and observance and protection of, all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all in accordance with the Charter, other instruments relating to human rights, and international law, and that the universal nature of these rights and freedoms is beyond question,
Reiterating that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated, interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and that all human rights must be treated in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis and that, while the significance of national and regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne in mind, all States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, have the duty to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Reaffirming, that all cultures and civilizations in their traditions, customs, religions and beliefs share a common set of values that belong to humankind in its entirety, and that those values have made an important contribution to the development of human rights norms and standards,
Stressing that traditions shall not be invoked to justify harmful practices violating universal human rights norms and standards,
Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
168. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.6, sponsored by the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Gabon, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Palestine, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Chad, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Qatar, Thailand and Uzbekistan joined the sponsors.
169. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation orally revised the draft resolution.
170. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China and Pakistan, on behalf of the States members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
171. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria proposed an oral revision to the draft resolution as orally revised.
172. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation agreed to the oral revision.
173. At the same meeting, the representatives of Chile (also on behalf of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay), Hungary (on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council), Mexico and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
174. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. Draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.6 as orally revised was adopted by 24 votes in favour, 14 against, with 7 abstentions.
175. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/3.
176. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representatives of Maldives and Switzerland made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Freedom of opinion and expression: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the rights to freedom of opinion and expression
177. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Egypt and the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.10, sponsored by Egypt and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Finland, Georgia, Guatemala, India, Jordan, Maldives, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Peru, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Uruguay. Subsequently, Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Gabon, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palestine, Poland, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Zambia joined the sponsors.
178. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
179. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/4).
Promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through a better understanding of traditional values of humankind
