16/21 Review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council
The Human Rights Council,
Acting in compliance with the mandate entrusted to it by the General Assembly in paragraph 16 of resolution 60/251 of 15 March 2006, in which the Assembly decided that the Human Rights Council should review its work and functioning five years after its establishment and report to the Assembly,
Review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council
59. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.39.
60. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Cuba, Hungary (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Japan, Mexico, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Norway, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Saudi Arabia, Switzerland and Uganda made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
61. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
62. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating the delegation from consensus in relation to the draft resolution.
63. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/21).
Postponement of the renewal of the mandate of the independent expert on human rights and international solidarity
64. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft decision A/HRC/16/L.40, sponsored by Cuba.
65. At the same meeting, the representative of Hungary, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the representative of the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
66. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Hungary, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on draft decision A/HRC/16/L.40. The draft decision was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 14 against, with no abstentions.
67. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter II, decision 16/118.
Review of the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council
