16/24 Situation of human rights in Myanmar
The Human Rights Council,
Situation of human rights in Myanmar
298. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.11, sponsored by Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and co-sponsored by Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Australia, Israel, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
299. At the same meeting, the representative of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, orally revised the draft resolution.
300. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
301. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the concerned country.
302. At the same meeting, the representatives of Japan, Malaysia and Thailand made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
303. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba and the Russian Federation made statements in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating their delegations from the consensus in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
304. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/24).
Situation of human rights in Côte d’Ivoire
305. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.33, sponsored by Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
306. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
307. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
308. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, France, Hungary (on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
309. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire made a statement as the concerned country.
310. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/25).
Situation of human rights in Myanmar
A/HRC/16/L.12/Rev.1
3
