16/8 Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments,
Recalling all previous resolutions adopted by the Commission on Human Rights, the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including Council resolution 13/14 of 25 March 2010 and Assembly resolution 65/225 of 21 December 2010, and urging the implementation of those resolutions,
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
283. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Hungary (on behalf of the European Union, Japan, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) and Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.3, sponsored by Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and Japan and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
284. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
285. At the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba and Ecuador made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
286. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement as the concerned country.
287. At the same meeting, the representatives of China and Thailand made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
288. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.3. The draft resolution was adopted by 30 votes in favour, 3 against, with 11 abstentions.
289. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/8.
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
