16/9 Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant international human rights instruments,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 65/226 of 21 December 2010, and regretting the lack of cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Iran with the requests of the Assembly made in that resolution,
Welcoming the interim report of the Secretary-General on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran submitted to the Human Rights Council,[10] and expressing serious concern at the developments noted in that report,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolutions 5/1, on the institution-building of the Council, and 5/2, on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that mandate holders are to discharge their duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,
1. Decides to appoint a special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, to report to the Human Rights Council and to the General Assembly, to present an interim report to the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session and to submit a report to the Council for its consideration at its nineteenth session;
2. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur and to permit access to visit the country as well as all information necessary to allow the fulfilment of the mandate;
3. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with the resources necessary to fulfil the mandate.
Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
290. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Sweden and the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.25/Rev.1, sponsored by Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United States of America and Zambia, and co-sponsored by Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Botswana, Israel and Romania joined the sponsors.
291. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
292. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
293. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the concerned country.
294. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, China, Cuba, Mauritania, Pakistan and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
295. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Pakistan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. Draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.25/Rev.1 was adopted by 22 votes in favour, 7 against, with 14 abstentions.
296. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/9.
297. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representatives of Japan, Malaysia and the Republic of Korea made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
