16/27 The right to food
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling all previous resolutions of the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council on the right to food, in particular Assembly resolution 65/220 of 21 December 2010 and Council resolution 13/4 of 24 March 2010, as well as all resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights on the issue,
The right to food
236. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.17, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, China, Djibouti, Ecuador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Turkey, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Algeria, Angola, Austria, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, the Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Haiti, Jordan, Kenya, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, the Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Palestine, Panama, the Philippines, Portugal, Senegal, Serbia, South Africa, Spain, the Sudan, Switzerland, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Timor-Leste, the United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe joined the sponsors.
237. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
238. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Mauritania moved to amend the draft resolution.
239. At the same meeting, the representatives of Guatemala and Spain opposed the motion for the proposed amendment.
240. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina (also on behalf of Brazil), Nigeria and the Republic of Korea made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
241. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary and Nigeria made statements in explanation of vote before the vote on the proposed amendment.
242. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Norway, a recorded vote was taken on the proposed amendment to draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.17. The motion for amendment was rejected by 31 votes against and 3 in favour, with 9 abstentions.
243. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
244. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary (on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
245. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/27).
246. At the same meeting, the representative of Spain made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
The protection of human rights in the context of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)
247. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Brazil introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.22, sponsored by Brazil and co-sponsored by Argentina, Armenia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Mexico, Montenegro, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Peru, Serbia, Switzerland, Thailand, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Austria, Croatia, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Jordan, the Netherlands, Palestine, Panama, Portugal, Romania and Spain joined the sponsors.
248. At the same meeting, the President informed the Human Rights Council that the United States of America had withdrawn its co-sponsorship of the draft resolution.
249. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria moved to amend the draft resolution.
250. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil agreed to the motion for the proposed amendment.
251. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
252. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote, to disassociate the delegation of Pakistan from the consensus in relation to certain paragraphs of the draft resolution as orally revised.
253. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
254. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/28).
255. At the same meeting, the representatives of Chile, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
256. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Egypt and Indonesia made comments in relation to the resolution.
Panel on human rights of victims of terrorism
257. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Colombia, Spain and Turkey introduced draft decision A/HRC/16/L.21, sponsored by Colombia, Spain and Turkey and co-sponsored by Algeria, Austria, Costa Rica, Croatia, France, Germany, Guatemala, India, Israel, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Ukraine and Uruguay. Subsequently, Brazil, Egypt, Lithuania, Montenegro and Thailand joined the sponsors.
258. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
259. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter II, decision 16/116.
Right to development
260. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, introduced draft decision A/HRC/16/L.9, sponsored by Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and co-sponsored by Uruguay. Subsequently, Armenia and Serbia joined the sponsors.
261. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, orally revised the draft decision.
262. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
263. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of the States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
264. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft decision A/HRC/16/L.9 as orally revised. The draft decision as orally revised was adopted by 45 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
265. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter II, decision 16/117.
The right to food
