16/2 The human right to safe drinking water and sanitation
The Human Rights Council,
The human right to safe drinking water and sanitation
160. At the 45th meeting, on 24 March 2011, the representatives of Germany and Spain introduced draft resolution A/HRC/16/L.4, sponsored by Germany and Spain and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Monaco, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Palestine, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay and Yemen. Subsequently, Austria, Belgium, Cameroon, Chad, Kenya, Latvia, Montenegro, Qatar, the Republic of Moldova, Senegal, Singapore, Saint Kitts and Nevis, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam joined the sponsors.
161. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
162. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Mauritania and Nigeria (on behalf of the States Members of the Group of African States that are members of the Human Rights Council) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
163. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
164. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote to disassociate the delegation from the consensus in relation to the draft resolution.
165. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 16/2).
166. At the 48th meeting, on 25 March 2011, the representative of Ecuador made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
167. At the same meeting, the representatives of Austria and of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) made comments in relation to the resolution.
The human right to safe drinking water and sanitation
