18/25 Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, as reaffirmed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in accordance with their respective obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
755. At the 38th meeting, on 30 September 2011, the representative of Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.25, sponsored by Japan and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
756. At the same meeting, the representatives of Poland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
757. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cambodia made a statement as the country concerned.
758. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
759. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Malaysia, the Philippines, the Russian Federation and Switzerland made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
760. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/25).
Annexes
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
A/HRC/18/L.26 and Rev.1
3
