18/10 Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,
Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
144. At the 36th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.3, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cuba, the Russian Federation, Sri Lanka and Turkey joined the sponsors.
145. At the same meeting, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
146. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
147. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
148. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/10).
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste
149. At the 36th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.6, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Austria, Costa Rica, Maldives, Portugal, Romania and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
150. At the same meeting, the representatives of Poland, on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council, and of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
151. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
152. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/11).
Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
