18/20 Panel on the promotion and protection of human rights in a multicultural context, including through combating xenophobia, discrimination and intolerance
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant instruments,
Reaffirming the pledge made by all States under the Charter to promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,
Reaffirming also that, as stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,
Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 60/1 of 16 September 2005, in which the Assembly emphasized the responsibilities of all States, in conformity with the Charter, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language or religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, and acknowledged the importance of respect and understanding for religious and cultural diversity throughout the world,
Welcoming the resolve expressed in the United Nations Millennium Declaration, adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 55/2 of 8 September 2000, to take measures to eliminate the increasing acts of racism and xenophobia in many societies and to promote greater harmony and tolerance in all societies, and looking forward to its effective implementation at all levels,
Reaffirming the landmark importance of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action in the pursuit of the universal promotion and protection of human rights and its continued relevance in responding to contemporary challenges,
Panel on the promotion and protection of human rights in a multicultural context, including through combating xenophobia, discrimination and intolerance
161. At the 36th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Egypt introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.17, sponsored by Egypt and co-sponsored by Bangladesh, Cuba, Malaysia, Morocco and Pakistan. Subsequently, Algeria, Australia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Djibouti, Indonesia, Iraq, Lebanon, Nicaragua, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal (on behalf of the Group of African States), Sri Lanka, Thailand and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
162. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt orally revised the draft resolution.
163. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba and Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
164. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
165. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
166. At the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 37 votes to 1, with 8 abstentions.
167. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/20.
Human rights of migrants
168. At the 37th meeting, on 30 September 2011, the representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.10/Rev.1, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Argentina, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Peru, Serbia, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Brazil, Egypt, Indonesia, Nicaragua, the Philippines and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.
169. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the draft resolution.
170. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador, Italy, Poland (on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
171. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/21).
