18/6 Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order

The Human Rights Council,
Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order
117. At the 35th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.13, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Congo, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Haiti, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Palestine, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, the Syrian Arab Republic joined the sponsors.
118. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
119. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Poland introduced amendment A/HRC/18/L.33 to the draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.13. Amendment A/HRC/18/L.33 was sponsored by Poland.
120. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba introduced amendment A/HRC/18/L.34 to amendment A/HRC/18/L.33. Amendment A/HRC/18/L.34 was sponsored by Cuba.
121. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America moved that an amendment be made to draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.13.
122. At the same meeting, the representatives of Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba and Peru made general comments in relation to the draft resolution and amendments.
123. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution and the amendments.
124. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador, Guatemala and Poland (on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote on amendment A/HRC/18/L.34.
125. Also at the same meeting, at the request of Poland, on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/18/L.34. The amendment was adopted by 23 votes to 12, with 10 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Nigeria, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda
Against:
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay
126. At the same meeting, the Human Rights Council decided not to take action on draft amendment A/HRC/18/L.33.
127. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on the amendment proposed by the United States of America. The amendment was rejected by 19 votes to 12, with 14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America
Against:
Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Cuba, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Uganda, Uruguay
Abstaining:
Botswana, Cameroon, Chile, Costa Rica, Djibouti, Guatemala, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Peru, Thailand
128. At the same meeting, the representative of Poland, on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised and amended by A/HRC/18/L.34.
129. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Poland, on behalf of member States of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised and amended by A/HRC/18/L.34. The draft resolution, as orally revised and amended by A/HRC/18/L.34, was adopted by 29 votes to 12, with 5 abstentions.
130. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/6.
Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order
