18/19 Technical assistance and capacity-building for Yemen in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Having conducted broad consultations and discussions with the Government of Yemen, and commending the cooperation that the Government has manifested in dealing with the mission of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights that visited Yemen from 28 June to 6 July 2011, upon the invitation of the Government, and based on the recommendations contained in the report of the mission[36] as well as the comments provided by the Government on the report and the said recommendations, and the statement made by the Government to the Human Rights Council at the present session,
1. Takes note of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the assessment mission to Yemen36 and the interactive dialogue held during the eighteenth session of the Human Rights Council, as well as the statements, observations and comments made by the Government of Yemen;
2. Calls upon the Government of Yemen and the other parties to address the recommendations made in the report of the High Commissioner, while acknowledging the Government’s response during the interactive dialogue, in addition to the State’s formal replies, comments on the report and willingness to cooperate with the United Nations and the Office of the High Commissioner;
3. Notes the announcement of the Government of Yemen that it will launch transparent and independent investigations, which will adhere to international standards, into credible documented allegations of human rights violations through an independent committee and in consultation with political parties;
4. Calls upon all parties to cooperate with the above-mentioned investigations;
5. Condemns all violations of human rights in Yemen by all parties;
6. Reiterates the commitments and obligations of the Government of Yemen to promote and protect human rights;
7. Calls upon all parties to move forward with negotiations on an inclusive, orderly and Yemeni-led process of political transition on the basis of the initiative of the Gulf Cooperation Council;
8. Calls upon the Government of Yemen and the High Commissioner to develop a framework for continued dialogue and strengthened cooperation in the field of human rights, and the international community to support this cooperation;
9. Invites the Office of the High Commissioner to coordinate with donors on ways to assist the Government of Yemen and non-governmental organizations with capacity-building for the establishment of a national human rights institution;
10. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to present a progress report on the situation of human rights in Yemen and the follow-up to the present resolution to the Human Rights Council at its nineteenth session.
Technical assistance and capacity-building for Yemen in the field of human rights
740. At the 36th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Yemen introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.32, sponsored by Yemen and co-sponsored by Canada, the Netherlands, Palestine and the United States of America. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Maldives, Morocco (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), New Zealand, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Poland, Portugal, Somalia and Turkey joined the sponsors.
741. At the same meeting, the representative of Yemen orally revised the draft resolution.
742. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Kuwait, Maldives, Poland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Saudi Arabia and Senegal (on behalf of the Group of African States) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
743. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
744. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/19).
Technical assistance and capacity-building for Haiti
745. At the 37th meeting, on 30 September 2011, the President of the Human Rights Council made a statement in relation to technical assistance and capacity-building for Haiti.
746. At the same meeting, the representative of Haiti made a statement as the country concerned.
747. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba (on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States), Poland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), the Russian Federation and the United States of America made comments in relation to the President’s statement.
748. For the text of the President’s statement, see part one, chapter III, PRST/18/1.
Technical assistance and capacity-building for Yemen in the field of human rights
