18/16 Technical assistance for the Sudan in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant instruments,
Reaffirming the obligation of States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Emphasizing that States have primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of all human rights,
Recognizing the developments taking place in the Sudan, and the efforts of the Government of the Sudan in the promotion and protection of human rights,
1. Takes note[33] of the report of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan and the addendum thereto, submitted to the Human Rights Council at its eighteenth session;
2. Commends the cooperation extended by the Government of the Sudan to the independent expert and to the United Nations and African Union missions in the Sudan in the field of human rights and international humanitarian law;
3. Also commends the efforts made by the Government of the Sudan in completing the implementation process of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, and appreciates the genuine role played by the Government in holding the historic referendum on self-determination for South Sudan as scheduled from 9 to 15 January 2011, and urges all parties to continue their efforts to implement the remaining obligations stipulated in the Agreement;
4. Expresses its appreciation to the Government of the Sudan for its immediate recognition of the State of South Sudan;
5. Welcomes the signing of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur, and urges non-signatory groups to join it without delay;
6. Also welcomes the continued work of the Sudanese Advisory Council for Human Rights aimed at the promotion and protection of human rights in the country;
7. Welcomes the submission by the Government of the Sudan of its first report under the universal periodic review mechanism,[34] the adoption of its outcome,[35] and the commitment made by the Government to implement accepted recommendations, and notes that a number of those recommendations call for the provision of support and technical assistance to the Government;
8. Notes with concern the humanitarian situation in the provinces of South Kordofan and Blue Nile, and calls upon all parties to make every effort to immediately end violence and halt clashes, to facilitate access for humanitarian assistance and to take action to strengthen the respect of the rule of law in the two provinces, and to respect all human rights and fundamental freedoms;
9. Requests Member States, relevant United Nations agencies and stakeholders to support the national efforts of the Government of the Sudan with a view to further improving the human rights situation in the country, and to respond to its requests for technical assistance;
10. Urges the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide the Sudan with the necessary technical support and training;
11. Decides to renew for a period of one year the mandate of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan under agenda item 10, requests the independent expert to engage with the Government of the Sudan with a view to identifying areas of assistance that will aid the Sudan to fulfil its human rights obligations, and to submit a report to the Human Rights Council for consideration at its twenty-first session, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the independent expert with all the assistance necessary for him to discharge his mandate fully;
12. Decides to consider this issue in accordance with its programme of work under agenda item 10.
Technical assistance for the Sudan in the field of human rights
A/HRC/18/L.5 and Rev.1
10
