18/17 Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Welcoming the Republic of South Sudan as a new State and Member of the United Nations,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and relevant human rights treaties,
Reaffirming the commitment of all States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in, inter alia, the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the obligation of all States to comply with international human rights treaties to which they are party,
Welcoming the commitment of the Government of South Sudan to promote and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Reaffirming that States have primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of human rights,
Recalling the reports of the Special Rapporteur and the independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan, and the findings and recommendations contained therein,
1. Welcomes the establishment of the Republic of South Sudan on 9 July 2011 upon its proclamation as an independent State;
2. Also welcomes the commitments made by the Government of South Sudan to strengthen national mechanisms of promotion and protection of human rights, and calls on the Government to implement those commitments;
3. Calls upon the Government of South Sudan to strengthen ongoing cooperation with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan on issues pertaining to the promotion and protection of human rights, and calls upon all parties to make every effort to prevent violence;
4. Encourages the international community to provide the Government of South Sudan with technical and financial assistance and to support its efforts to promote and protect human rights;
5. Invites the Office of the United High Commissioner for Human Rights, in collaboration with the Government of South Sudan, to identify and assess areas of assistance and, upon its request, to assist the Government in its efforts to promote and protect human rights;
6. Calls upon States Members of the United Nations, in the framework of international cooperation, relevant United Nations agencies and international financial institutions, to provide the Government of South Sudan, upon its request, with appropriate technical assistance and capacity-building to promote respect for human rights;
7. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to present a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-first session.
Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
731. At the 36th meeting, on 29 September 2011, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/18/L.5/Rev.1, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Switzerland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
732. At the same meeting, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
733. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Poland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
734. At the same meeting, the representative of South Sudan made a statement as the country concerned.
735. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
736. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 18/17).
Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
