17/13 Extreme poverty and human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling that, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants on Human Rights, the ideal of free human beings enjoying freedom from fear and want can be achieved only if conditions are created whereby everyone may enjoy his or her economic, social and cultural rights, as well as his or her civil and political rights, and reaffirming in this regard the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,
Extreme poverty and human rights
171. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of France introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.15, sponsored by France and co-sponsored by Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, the Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Andorra, Bulgaria, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Hungary, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
172. At the same meeting, the representative of France orally revised the draft resolution.
173. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/15).
Right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health in the context of development and access to medicines
174. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Brazil, on behalf of India, Egypt and South Africa, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.16, sponsored by Brazil, Egypt, India and South Africa and co-sponsored by Algeria, Armenia, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala, Ecuador, El Salvador, India, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Andorra, Argentina, Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Mauritius, Morocco, Norway, the Philippines, Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand and Uganda joined the sponsors.
175. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil orally revised the draft resolution.
176. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of the United States of America, of Japan and of Cuba made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
177. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
178. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/14).
179. Also, at the same meeting, the representative of Brazil made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Extreme poverty and human rights: draft resolution
