17/1 Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children
The Human Rights Council,
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children
130. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representatives of Germany and the Philippines introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.2, sponsored by Germany and the Philippines and co-sponsored by Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Andorra, Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Estonia, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Monaco, Montenegro, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Paraguay, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Turkey and Uganda joined the sponsors.
131. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
132. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
133. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/1).
Independence of judges and lawyers
134. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representative of Hungary introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.10, sponsored by Hungary and co-sponsored by Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Albania, Andorra, Brazil, Bulgaria, Honduras, Iceland, India, Japan, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Spain, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
135. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
136. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/2).
The right to education: follow-up to resolution 8/4
137. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.11, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Morocco, Panama, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Syrian Arab Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Albania, Andorra, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cape Verde, Egypt, El Salvador, Georgia, Honduras, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Malta, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, the Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Thailand and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
138. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
139. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/3).
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children: draft resolution
