17/8 Proclamation of 19 August as the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and other relevant instruments of international human rights law and international humanitarian law,
Taking into account the importance of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, adopted on 8 September 2006, reaffirming the fact that the promotion and protection of human rights for all and the rule of law are essential to the fight against terrorism, recognizing that effective counter-terrorism measures and the protection of human rights are not conflicting goals but complementary and mutually reinforcing, and stressing the need to promote and protect the rights of victims of terrorism,
Deploring deeply the suffering caused by terrorism to the victims and their families, expressing its profound solidarity with them and stressing the importance of providing them with proper assistance,
Reaffirming its unequivocal condemnation of all acts, methods and practices of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, wherever and by whomever committed, regardless of their motivation, as criminal and unjustifiable, and renewing its commitment to strengthen international cooperation to prevent and combat terrorism,
Reaffirming also the fact that acts, methods and practices of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations are activities aimed at the destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy, threatening the territorial integrity and security of States and destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments,
1. Recommends that the General Assembly proclaim 19 August the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism;
2. Invites all Member States, organizations of the United Nations system and other international organizations, and civil society entities, including non-governmental organizations and individuals, to observe the International Day in an appropriate manner;
3. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the attention of all States Members of the United Nations.
33rd meeting
Proclamation of 19 August as the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism
159. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representative of Afghanistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.25, sponsored by Afghanistan and co-sponsored by Australia, Cuba, Finland, France, Germany, India, Iraq, Japan, Maldives, Morocco, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Timor-Leste, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Algeria, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chad, Croatia, Djibouti, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Malaysia, Montenegro, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
160. At the same meeting, the representative of Afghanistan orally revised the draft resolution.
161. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Spain made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
162. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/8).
Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women
163. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.6, sponsored by Canada and co-sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, Uruguay and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Andorra, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Chad, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Georgia, Ghana, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Palestine, Paraguay, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Somalia, Timor-Leste, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
164. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution.
165. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
166. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/11).
Proclamation of 19 August as the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism: draft resolution
