17/15 Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and all other relevant human rights instruments,
Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity
180. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.22, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, China, Djibouti, Ecuador, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Palestine, the Philippines, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Senegal, Serbia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan and the Syrian Arab Republic joined the sponsors.
181. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
182 In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
183. At the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, and of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
184. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/15).
Promotion of the right of people to peace
185. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.23, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, China, Djibouti, Ecuador, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Palestine, the Philippines, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Bangladesh, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lebanon, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
186. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
187. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, of the United States of America and of Mexico made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
188. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 14 against, with no abstentions.
189. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/16.
Panel on the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protests
190. At the 35th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft decision A/HRC/17/L.4/Rev.1, sponsored by Switzerland. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Palestine, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Timor-Leste, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
191. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland orally revised the draft decision.
192. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
193. Also at the same meeting, the draft decision was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, decision 17/120).
Migrants and asylum seekers fleeing from events in North Africa
194. At the 35th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.13, sponsored by Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Bolivia (Plurinational State of) and Brazil joined the sponsors.
195. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
196. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of European Union, and of the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
197. At the same meeting, at the request of the representatives of Hungary, on behalf of the European Union, and of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 14 against, with no abstentions.
198. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/22.
Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity: draft resolution
