17/7 The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant international human rights instruments,
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
154. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.24, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, the Congo, Djibouti, Ecuador, Indonesia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Palestine, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, South Africa, the Sudan and the Syrian Arab Republic joined the sponsors.
155. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
156. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
157. At the same meeting, at the request of the representatives of Hungary (on behalf of the European Union) and of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 30 votes in favour, 13 against, with 3 abstentions.
158. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/7.
Proclamation of 19 August as the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism
159. At the 33rd meeting, on 16 June 2011, the representative of Afghanistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.25, sponsored by Afghanistan and co-sponsored by Australia, Cuba, Finland, France, Germany, India, Iraq, Japan, Maldives, Morocco, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Timor-Leste, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Algeria, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chad, Croatia, Djibouti, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Malaysia, Montenegro, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
160. At the same meeting, the representative of Afghanistan orally revised the draft resolution.
161. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Spain made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
162. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/8).
Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women
163. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2011, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/17/L.6, sponsored by Canada and co-sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, Uruguay and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Andorra, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Chad, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Georgia, Ghana, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Palestine, Paraguay, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Somalia, Timor-Leste, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
164. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution.
165. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
166. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 17/11).
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights: draft resolution
