2/5. Effective implementation of international instruments on human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Effective implementation of international instruments on human rights
236. At the 33rd meeting, on 28 November 2006, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.40/Rev.1 (see also paragraph 223 above), sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Canada, Ecuador, Ireland, the Netherlands, Serbia and Sweden. Australia, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Ghana, Iceland, Latvia, Nicaragua, Peru, Poland, Romania, Switzerland and Turkey subsequently joined the sponsors.
237. The representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 1 and replacing paragraph 2 with a new text.
238. The representatives of Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) and Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) made statements in connection with the draft resolution.
239. The representative of Indonesia made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
240. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section A, resolution 2/5.
Freedom of opinion and expression
241. At the 33rd meeting, on 28 November 2006, the representative of Canada introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.42/Rev.1 (see also paragraph 223 above), sponsored by Andorra, Argentina, Canada, Denmark, France, Ghana, Ireland, Liechtenstein, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Romania, Slovakia and the United States of America. Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Serbia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and Uruguay subsequently joined the sponsors.
242. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada stated that his delegation decided to defer consideration of draft decision A/HRC/2/L.42/Rev.1 to a future session of the Council. At the 35th meeting, on 29 November 2006, he stated that his delegation decided to defer consideration of the aforementioned draft decision to the fourth session of the Council.
Darfur
243. At the 34th meeting, on 28 November 2006, the representative of Algeria introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.44, sponsored by Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States).
244. At the same meeting, the representative of Finland (on behalf of Canada and the European Union) proposed amendments (A/HRC/2/L.48) to draft decision A/HRC/2/L.44. The amendments consisted of the following:
(a) Replace paragraph 2 with the following:
“The Council notes with deep concern the seriousness of the human rights and humanitarian situation in Darfur and calls for an immediate end to the ongoing violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. It emphasizes the primary obligation of the Government of the Sudan to protect all individuals against violations, including sexual and other forms of gender‑based violence and the use of child soldiers. It calls on all parties to put an effective end to all acts of violence against civilians, with a special focus on vulnerable groups, including women and children, while permitting the return of all internally displaced persons to their homes”;
(b) Replace the second sentence in paragraph 3 with the following sentence:
“It calls on all parties to put an end to impunity and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the Agreement and relevant United Nations resolutions in this regard, inter alia by assisting in bringing to justice those responsible for grave crimes under international law”;
(c) Replace, in paragraph 4, the words “places where they have duties to discharge” with the words “places of detention”;
(d) Add, in paragraph 5, after the word “mechanisms”, the words “by implementing the various recommendations. It requests the High Commissioner for Human Rights to report to the Council at its fourth session on progress in this regard”; and
(e) Delete, in paragraph 6, the words “to the Government of the Sudan”.
245. At the same meeting, statements in connection with the proposed amendments (A/HRC/2/L.48), were made by the representatives of Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Canada, Jordan and Switzerland and the observer for the Sudan.
246. At the same meeting, a recorded vote was taken on the proposed amendments, which were rejected by 22 votes to 20, with 4 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Argentina, Canada, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.
Against: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia.
Abstaining: Brazil, Mauritius, Philippines, Zambia.
247. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote on the draft decision (A/HRC/2/L.44) were made by the representatives of Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania), France and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
248. At the same meeting, a recorded vote was taken on the draft decision which was adopted by 25 votes to 11, with 10 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia.
Against: Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Abstaining: Argentina, Ecuador, Ghana, Guatemala, Japan, Mauritius, Peru, Republic of Korea, Uruguay, Zambia.
249. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador, Indonesia and the Republic of Korea made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
250. Further to the adoption of the decision, the Council, pursuant to rule 131 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, took no action on the draft proposal contained in document A/HRC/2/L.45, relating to the same question.
251. For the text of the draft decision as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/115.
Effective implementation of international instruments on human rights: draft resolution
