2/3. Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Deeply concerned at the suffering of the Syrian citizens in the occupied Syrian Golan due to the violation of their fundamental and human rights since the Israeli military occupation of 1967,
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
176. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.5/Rev.1, sponsored by Bahrain, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Guinea, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Yemen; and Palestine. Algeria, Bangladesh and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) subsequently joined the sponsors.
177. The representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 7.
178. Statements in connection with the draft resolution were made by the representatives of Algeria and Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States). The observers for Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic made statements as concerned countries.
179. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Canada and Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania).
180. At the request of the representative of Canada, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft decision was adopted by 32 votes to 1, with 14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Uruguay, Zambia.
Against: Canada.
Abstaining: Cameroon, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Japan, Netherlands, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
181. For the text of the resolution as adopted, see chapter I, section A, resolution 2/3.
Right to the truth
182. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Argentina introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.6/Rev.1, sponsored by Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Colombia, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Morocco, Nepal, Panama, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Slovenia, Switzerland and Thailand subsequently joined the sponsors.
183. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/105.
Incompatibility between democracy and racism
184. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Brazil introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.7/Rev.2, sponsored by Brazil. Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Germany, Guatemala, Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Serbia, Thailand, Turkey and Uruguay subsequently joined the sponsors.
185. The representative of Algeria proposed an oral amendment to the draft decision. He proposed to replace paragraph 3 by the following text:
“Invites the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in collaboration with the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, to continue to analyse further the issue of incitement and promotion of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related religious and other forms of intolerance, as well as incitement to violence, in the political debate.”
186. The representative of Brazil made a statement in connection with the proposed oral amendment.
187. Subsequently, the oral amendment submitted by Algeria was withdrawn.
188. The representative of Pakistan made a statement in connection with the draft decision.
189. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/106.
Access to medication in the context of pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria
190. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Brazil introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.8/Rev.2, sponsored by Brazil. Andorra, Armenia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Romania, Serbia, Thailand, Timor‑Leste, Turkey, the United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay and Zambia subsequently joined the sponsors.
191. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/107.
The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health
192. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Brazil introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.9/Rev.2, sponsored by Brazil. Armenia, Belgium, Guatemala, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Timor‑Leste, Tunisia, Turkey, Uruguay and Zambia subsequently joined the sponsors.
193. Statements in connection with the draft decision were made by the representatives of Brazil and Mexico.
194. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/108.
Effects of economic reform policies and foreign debt on the full enjoyment of all human rights
195. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Cuba introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.17, sponsored by Cuba. Ecuador, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Kenya, Nicaragua and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) subsequently joined the sponsors.
196. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications[5] of the draft decision.
197. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania) and Japan.
198. At the request of the representative of Japan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft decision, which was adopted by 33 votes to 13, with 1 abstention. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Uruguay, Zambia.
Against: Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Abstaining: Peru.
199. For the text of the draft decision as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/109.
Integrity of the judicial system
200. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.20, sponsored by the Russian Federation. Belarus and Nicaragua subsequently joined the sponsors.
201. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/110.
Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
202. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.21, sponsored by the Russian Federation. Azerbaijan and Nicaragua subsequently joined the sponsors.
203. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation withdrew draft decision A/HRC/2/L.21.
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan: draft resolution
A/HRC/2/L.6/Rev.1
2
Right to the truth: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.7/Rev.2
2
Incompatibility between democracy and racism: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.8/Rev.2
2
Access to medication in the context of pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.9/Rev.2
2
The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.10 and Add.1
3
Draft report of the Council at its second session
A/HRC/2/L.11 and Add.1‑2
3
Idem
