2/1. Intergovernmental Working Group on the Review of Mandates
The Human Rights Council,
Bearing in mind paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 60/251 of 15 March 2006, in which the Assembly decided that the Council should improve and rationalize all mandates, mechanisms, functions and responsibilities of the Commission on Human Rights in order to maintain a system of special procedures, expert advice and a complaint procedure,
Recalling its decision 1/104 of 30 June 2006, in which it decided to establish an open‑ended intergovernmental working group on the issue of reviewing and, where necessary, improving and rationalizing all human rights mandates, mechanisms, functions and responsibilities,
Taking note of the draft manual of the United Nations human rights special procedures of June 2006, revised by the Coordination Committee of the special procedures, and the decision taken at the thirteenth meeting of the special procedures to submit the manual to Governments and other stakeholders for comments and inputs,
1. Requests the Open‑ended Intergovernmental Working Group on the Review of Mandates to review the revised draft manual of the United Nations human rights special procedures of June 2006 and to make recommendations on possible additions or amendments thereto;
2. Also requests the Coordinating Committee of the special procedures to extend until the closure of the fourth session of the Council, which will be held from 12 March to 6 April 2007, the deadline for the submission of comments and inputs to the draft manual of special procedures;
3. Further requests the Working Group to draft a code of conduct regulating the work of the special procedures, taking into account, inter alia, the suggestions made by the members of the Council during the discussions at its second session on the reports of the special procedures mandate holders, as well as at previous formal and informal sessions of the Working Group;
4. Invites the Working Group to report to the Council at its fourth session on the progress achieved in the implementation of the present resolution.
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Review of Mandates
162. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Algeria introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.2/Rev.1, sponsored by Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States). Colombia and Indonesia subsequently joined the sponsors.
163. A statement in connection with the draft resolution was made by the representative of Pakistan.
164. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Argentina, Canada, China, Cuba, Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania), Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.
165. At the request of the representative of Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution, which was adopted by 30 votes to 15, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Zambia.
Against: Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Abstaining: Argentina, Uruguay.
166. Statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the representatives of Brazil, Ecuador and Guatemala.
167. For the text of the resolution as adopted, see chapter I, section A, resolution 2/1.
Human rights and access to water
168. At the 31st meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representatives of Germany and Spain introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.3/Rev.3, sponsored by Algeria, Belgium, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mali, Malta, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Timor‑Leste and Uruguay. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Chad, Croatia, Denmark, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Norway, Tunisia and Zambia subsequently joined the sponsors.
169. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications[4] of the draft decision.
170. Statements in connection with the draft decision were made by the representatives of Algeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Nigeria, Pakistan and Zambia.
171. Statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the representatives of Argentina and Indonesia.
172. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/104.
Intergovernmental Working Group on the Review of Mandates: draft decision


Documents issued in the limited series (continued)
Symbol
Agenda item


A/HRC/2/L.3/Rev.3
2
Human rights and access to water: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.4/Rev.2
2
Human rights and extreme poverty: draft resolution
A/HRC/2/L.5/Rev.1
2
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan: draft resolution
A/HRC/2/L.6/Rev.1
2
Right to the truth: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.7/Rev.2
2
Incompatibility between democracy and racism: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.8/Rev.2
2
Access to medication in the context of pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.9/Rev.2
2
The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health: draft decision
A/HRC/2/L.10 and Add.1
3
Draft report of the Council at its second session
A/HRC/2/L.11 and Add.1‑2
3
Idem
