2/4. Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,
Reaffirming that all States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter and as elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable instruments,
Recalling relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, the Security Council and the General Assembly, most recently General Assembly resolution 60/106 of 8 December 2005 in which it reaffirmed, inter alia, the illegality of the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories,
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan
204. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.12, sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Morocco, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Yemen; and Palestine. Azerbaijan, Belarus, Iraq, Mauritania, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zimbabwe subsequently joined the sponsors.
205. The representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution by modifying the eighth and ninth preambular paragraphs, by inserting a new paragraph after the tenth preambular paragraph, by modifying paragraphs 1, 2 (e), and 5 (f) and by inserting a new paragraph after paragraph 3 and a further one after paragraph 6.
206. Statements in connection with the draft resolution were made by the observers for Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic, and the observer for Palestine, as concerned countries, or parties.
207. A statement in explanation of vote before the vote was made by the representative of Canada.
208. At the request of the representative of Canada, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution was adopted by 45 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Cuba, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Ecuador, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Zambia.
Against: Canada.
Abstaining: Cameroon.
209. Statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the representatives of Argentina, Ecuador, Finland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council and the acceding country, Romania), Nigeria and Peru.
210. For the text of the draft resolution as adopted, see chapter I, section A, resolution 2/4.
Human rights and arbitrary deprivation of nationality
211. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.22, sponsored by the Russian Federation. Belarus and Kazakhstan subsequently joined the sponsors.
212. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/111.
Globalization and its impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights
213. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of China introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.23, sponsored by China. Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua and Thailand subsequently joined the sponsors.
214. The representative of China stated that his delegation had decided to defer consideration of draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.23 to the fourth session of the Council.
Strengthening of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
215. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of China introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.24, sponsored by China. Belarus, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua and Timor‑Leste subsequently joined the sponsors.
216. The representative of China stated that his delegation had decided to defer consideration of the draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.24 to the fourth session of the Council.
Persons deprived of liberty in the context of counter‑terrorism measures
217. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.34/Rev.1, sponsored by Switzerland. Chile and Guatemala subsequently joined the sponsors.
218. The representatives of Algeria and the Russian Federation made statements in connection with the draft decision.
219. The representatives of Cuba and Indonesia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
220. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/112.
Impunity
221. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.38/Rev.1, sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, the Netherlands, Peru, Slovakia, Slovenia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Denmark, Ecuador, Germany, Ghana, Ireland, Latvia, Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Switzerland and Uruguay subsequently joined the sponsors.
222. The representatives of Algeria, Canada and Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) made statements in connection with the draft resolution.
223. Under rule 116 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the representative of Bahrain (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) formally moved to adjourn the consideration of draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.38/Rev.1, as well as that of draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.40/Rev.1 (see also paragraph 236 below) and draft decision A/HRC/2/L.42/Rev.1 (see also paragraph 241 below), to the following day, and requested a vote on the motion.
224. Under the same rule, the Council heard two statements in favour of the motion by the representatives of Algeria and Cuba, and two statements against the motion by the representatives of Canada and Finland (on behalf of the European Union).
225. A recorded vote was taken on the motion, which was adopted by 25 votes to 20, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tunisia.
Against: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Japan, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Zambia.
Abstaining: Mauritius, Mexico.
226. At the 33rd meeting, on 28 November 2006, the representative of Canada stated that his delegation decided to defer consideration of draft resolution A/HRC/2/L.38/Rev.1 to a future session of the Council. At the 35th meeting, on 29 November 2006, he stated that his delegation decided to defer consideration of the aforementioned draft resolution to the fourth session of the Council.
Cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights: Afghanistan
227. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Finland introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.46, sponsored by Finland (on behalf of the European Union) and Afghanistan. Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Liechtenstein, Norway, Romania, Serbia and The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia subsequently joined the sponsors.
228. The observer for Afghanistan made a statement in connection with the draft decision as a concerned country.
229. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/113.
Cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights: Nepal
230. At the 32nd meeting, on 27 November 2006, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.47, sponsored by Finland (on behalf of the European Union) and Switzerland. Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Liechtenstein, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Romania, Serbia and The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia subsequently joined the sponsors.
231. The representative of Nepal made a statement in connection with the draft decision as a concerned country.
232. The representative of Zambia made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
233. The draft decision was adopted without a vote. For the text as adopted, see chapter I, section B, decision 2/114.
Global efforts for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow‑up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
234. At the 33rd meeting, on 28 November 2006, the representative of Algeria introduced draft decision A/HRC/2/L.27/Rev.2, sponsored by Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States). Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) and Uruguay subsequently joined the sponsors.
235. At the same meeting, the representative of Algeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) stated that his delegation decided to defer consideration of draft decision A/HRC/2/L.27/Rev.2 to the third session of the Council.
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the occupied Syrian Golan: draft resolution
