23/25 Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: preventing and responding to rape and other forms of sexual violence
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Guided by the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,

Reaffirming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development and Human Rights Council resolutions 7/24 of 28 March 2008, 14/12 of 18 June 2010, 16/7 of 24 March 2011, 17/11 of 17 June 2011 and 20/12 of 5 July 2012, as well as those of the Commission on Human Rights on the elimination of all forms of violence against women, and recalling relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and relevant resolutions and the agreed conclusions of the Commission on the Status of Women,[36]

Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: preventing and responding to rape and other forms of sexual violence

208. At the 40th meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Canada introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.28, sponsored by Canada and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Denmark, Djibouti, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Paraguay, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Angola, Argentina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Colombia, the Congo, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Germany, Iceland, Japan, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, San Marino, Sierra Leone, Sweden, Ukraine and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
209. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution.
210. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation withdrew its amendments A/HRC/23/L.30, A/HRC/23/L.31, A/HRC/23/L.32, A/HRC/23/L.33, A/HRC/23/L.34 and A/HRC/23/L.35 to this draft resolution.
211. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil (also on behalf of Argentina, Belgium, Colombia, Croatia, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)), Sierra Leone, Switzerland and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
212. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
213. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/25).
Human rights and climate change

214. At the 41st meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of the Philippines introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.27, sponsored by Bangladesh and the Philippines and co-sponsored by Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cambodia, Cuba, Ecuador, Gabon (on behalf of the Group of African States), Lebanon, Monaco, Nepal, Qatar, Sri Lanka, Timor-Leste, Uruguay and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Honduras and Thailand joined the sponsors.
215. At the same meeting, the representative of the Philippines stated that the sponsors and the co-sponsors decided to request the deferment of the consideration of this draft resolution.
216. Also at the same meeting, the Human Rights Council decided, without a vote, to defer the consideration of this draft resolution to its twenty-fourth session.

Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: preventing and responding to rape and other forms of sexual violence

