23/13 Attacks and discrimination against persons with albinism
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes, principles and provisions of the Charter of the United Nations,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and recalling relevant international human rights treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities,
Reaffirming also that everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person, and that no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment,
Recalling the fundamental principle of equality and non-discrimination that underlies the Charter and international human rights instruments,
Taking note of the work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children,
Reaffirming the right to health and education as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and relevant international human rights treaties,
Expressing its concern at attacks against persons with albinism, including against women and children, which are often committed with impunity,
Expressing its concern also at the widespread discrimination, stigma and social exclusion suffered by persons with albinism,
Welcoming the steps taken and efforts made by the countries concerned, including the initiation of legal action against the perpetrators of attacks against persons with albinism, public condemnation of attacks against persons with albinism, the provision of temporary shelter to persons with albinism under threat of attack, and public awareness-raising campaigns,
1. Urges States to take all measures necessary to ensure the effective protection of persons with albinism, and their family members;
2. Calls upon States to ensure accountability through the conduct of impartial, speedy and effective investigations into attacks against persons with albinism falling within their jurisdiction, and to bring those responsible to justice, and to ensure that victims and family members have access to appropriate remedies;
3. Also calls upon States to take effective measures to eliminate any type of discrimination against persons with albinism, and to accelerate education and public awareness-raising activities;
4. Encourages States to share best practices in protecting and promoting the rights of persons with albinism;
5. Invites relevant special procedures of the Human Rights Council, as appropriate, in the framework of their mandate, to address the relevant aspects of the safety and non-discrimination of persons with albinism;
6. Invites States, in collaboration with relevant regional and international organizations, to promote bilateral, regional and international initiatives to support the protection of persons with albinism;
7. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner of Human Rights to submit a preliminary report on attacks and discrimination against persons with albinism to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-fourth session;
8. Decides to remain seized of the matter.
38th meeting
Attacks and discrimination against persons with albinism

195. At the 38th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.25, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
196. At the same meeting, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
197. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
198. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/13).
Attacks and discrimination against persons with albinism

