23/3 Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming its commitment to promoting international cooperation, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, in particular Article 1, paragraph 3, as well as relevant provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted at the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993, for enhancing genuine cooperation among Member States in the field of human rights,
Recalling the adoption by the General Assembly of the United Nations Millennium Declaration on 8 September 2000, and the renewed commitments to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by their target date of 2015, as set out in the outcome document adopted at the High-level Plenary Meeting of the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,
Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights

161. At the 38th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representative of Iran (Islamic Republic of), on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.6, sponsored by Iran (Islamic Republic of), on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and co-sponsored by Algeria, on behalf of the Group of Arab States. Subsequently, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation joined the sponsors.
162. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
163. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/3).
The right to education: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 8/4

164. At the 38th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.7, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Norway, Peru, Qatar, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Timor-Leste, Uruguay and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Algeria (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Andorra, Belarus, Colombia, Denmark, Ethiopia, France, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Mauritius, Montenegro, Namibia, Nicaragua, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, San Marino, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
165. At the same meeting, the representative of Portugal orally revised the draft resolution.
166. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
167. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/4).
Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights
