23/19National policies and human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Guided also by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations,
Recalling all relevant international human rights treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,

Recalling also that States emphasized in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and the 2005 World Summit Outcome[29] that they bear the responsibility, in conformity with the Charter, to develop and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction of any kind such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,

Bearing in mind that States should integrate their obligations under international human rights law into their national legislation in order to ensure that State action at the national level is effectively directed towards the promotion and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Noting that State action aimed at the promotion, protection and full realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms at the national level is most effective when fully integrated into national policies based on a human rights perspective,

Reaffirming that all human rights are inalienable, universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that, therefore, national policies aimed at their promotion and protection will also have a mutually reinforcing effect on their realization,

Recognizing that each State has the right to choose the framework that is best suited to its particular needs at the national level,

Reaffirming the importance of international cooperation to support States in the process of integrating their obligations under international human rights law into national legislation, and drawing up and carrying out national policies aimed at the full realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recognizing the important and constructive role that national human rights institutions and civil society can play in the process of drawing up and assessing the impact of national policies aimed at the promotion, protection and full realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

1. Recognizes that State action aimed at the full realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms at the national level is made most effective by drawing up and putting into practice national policies in conformity with obligations under international human rights law;
2. Stresses the importance of the resolution of Heads of State and Government to integrate the promotion and protection of human rights into national policies as reflected in the 2005 World Summit Outcome,
3. Recognizes the importance of developing, strengthening and implementing, as appropriate, national systems for collecting, monitoring and evaluating relevant disaggregated national data as a useful tool for drawing up and assessing the impact of national policies aimed at the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms;
4. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to prepare a report on technical assistance and capacity-building options for integrating human rights into national policies, drawing from worldwide best practices in this field, with a view to support States in developing and applying suitable methodologies to that end, upon request and according to their own particular needs and priorities;
5. Also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to submit the above-mentioned report to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-seventh session.
39th meeting
National policies and human rights

783. At the 39th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representatives of Ecuador and Peru introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.16, sponsored by Ecuador and Peru, and co-sponsored by Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Djibouti, Estonia, Ethiopia, Germany, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, the Netherlands, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Croatia, Egypt, France, Georgia, Guatemala, Indonesia, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Slovenia, Switzerland, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
784. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
785. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/19).
Technical assistance to Côte d’Ivoire in the field of human rights

786. At the 40th meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.2/Rev.1, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Maldives, Norway, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
787. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
788. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire made a statement as the country concerned.
789. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
790. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/22).
National policies and human rights
