23/15 Situation of human rights in Belarus
The Human Rights Council,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Recalling all resolutions adopted by the Commission on Human Rights, the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council on the situation of human rights in Belarus, including Council resolutions 17/24 of 17 June 2011 and 20/13 of 5 July 2012, and deploring the inadequate response by the Government of Belarus to the requests of the Council made in those resolutions, including the denial of access to the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus and other special procedures mandate holders to the country,
Situation of human rights in Belarus
235. At the 38th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.18, sponsored by Ireland, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Albania, Croatia, Iceland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada and New Zealand joined the sponsors.
236. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
237. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Belarus made a statement as the country concerned.
238. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
239. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
240. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 26 votes to 3, with 18 abstentions.
241. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/15.
242. At the 41st meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Switzerland, also on behalf of Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Situation of human rights in Belarus
