23/23 Strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services in Guinea
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services in Guinea

791. At the 40th meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.4, sponsored by Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Slovenia, Switzerland, Thailand and Turkey joined the sponsors.
792. At the same meeting, the representative of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States, orally revised the draft resolution.
793. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Guinea made a statement as the country concerned.
794. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
795. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/23).
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights

796. At the 40th meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representatives of Turkey and Somalia introduced draft decision A/HRC/23/L.11, sponsored by Australia, Austria, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Italy, Norway, Qatar, Somalia, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Yemen and co-sponsored by Belgium, Botswana, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, France, Germany, Maldives, Morocco, Portugal and Romania. Subsequently, Algeria (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Denmark, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, Namibia, New Zealand, Poland, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Slovenia and Thailand joined the sponsors.
797. At the same meeting, the representative of Somalia orally revised the draft decision.
798. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft decision.
799. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision.
800. At the same meeting, the draft decision, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter II, decision 23/114).
Strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services in Guinea
