23/26 The deterioration of the situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the need to grant immediate access to the commission of inquiry
The Human Rights Council,

Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,

The deterioration of the situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the need to grant immediate access to the commission of inquiry
250. At the 41st meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Qatar introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.29, sponsored by Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America and co-sponsored by the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Canada, Côte d’Ivoire, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Slovenia and Sweden joined the sponsors.
251. At the same meeting, the representative of Qatar orally revised the draft resolution.
252. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Costa Rica, India, Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Peru, Switzerland and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
253. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the country concerned.
254. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Angola, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Indonesia, Pakistan, Peru, Thailand, Uganda, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
255. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 37 votes to 1, with 9 abstentions.
256. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/26.
257. At the same meeting, on the same day, the representative of Argentina made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
The deterioration of the situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic and the need to grant immediate access to the commission of inquiry

