23/11 The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant international human rights instruments,

The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
185. At the 38th meeting, on 13 June 2013, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.22, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Angola, Algeria (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Congo, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Burkina Faso, Indonesia, Namibia, Senegal, South Africa, Togo and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
186. At the same meeting, the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
187. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 30 votes to 15, with 2 abstentions.
188. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/11.
189. At the 41st meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representative of Sierra Leone made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
