23/1The deteriorating situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the recent killings in Al-Qusayr
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,
Having held an urgent debate to discuss the deteriorating situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the recent killings in Al Qusayr, which is currently under siege by the Syrian regime,
The deteriorating situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the recent killings in Al-Qusayr

30. At the 8th meeting, on 29 May 2013, the representative of Qatar introduced draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.1, sponsored by Qatar, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Australia, Bahrain, Canada, France, Georgia, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Maldives, Monaco, Morocco, New Zealand, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
31. At the same meeting, the representative of Qatar orally revised the draft resolution.
32. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
33. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the country concerned.
34. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
35. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ecuador, Germany (also on behalf of Austria and the Czech Republic), Pakistan and Peru made statements in explanation of vote before the vote. The representatives of Guatemala and India sought clarification on the text of draft resolution under consideration.
36. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/23/L.1 as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 36 votes to 1, with 8 abstentions.
37. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 23/1.
38. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Chile, Indonesia and Thailand made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Situation of human rights in Myanmar as regards Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine State and other Muslims
39. At the 40th meeting, on 14 June 2013, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced draft President’s statement A/HRC/23/L.26 as orally revised.
40. At the same meeting, the representatives of India, Indonesia, Ireland (on behalf of the European Union), Japan, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Thailand and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft President’s statement.
41. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the country concerned.
42. At the same meeting, the draft President’s statement, as orally revised, was adopted by the Council (for the text of the President’s statement, see part one, chapter III, PRST 23/1).
K. Adoption of the report on the session
43. At the 41st meeting, on 14 June 2013, the representatives of Australia, Bahrain (on behalf of the Gulf Cooperation Council), China, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, New Zealand, the Russian Federation and South Africa made statements as observer States with regard to adopted resolutions.
44. At the same meeting, the Vice-President and Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council made a statement in connection with the draft report of the Council on its twenty-third session (A/HRC/23/2).
45. Also at the same meeting, the Human Rights Council adopted the draft report (A/HRC/23/2) ad referendum and decided to entrust the Rapporteur with its finalization.
46. At the same meeting, the representatives of Ireland (on behalf of the European Union) and Pakistan (also on behalf of China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Turkmenistan, Uganda and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)) and the observers for the International Service for Human Rights (also on behalf of the Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development, Canadian HIV/AIDS Legal Network, CIVICUS – World Alliance for Citizen Participation, the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, the East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project, the Human Rights House Foundation, Human Rights Watch, the International Federation for Human Rights Leagues and the International Lesbian and Gay Association) and Mouvement contre le racisme et pour l'amitié entre les peuples (also on behalf of the American Association of Jurists, BADIL Resource Center for Palestinian Residency and Refugee Rights, the Indian Council of South America (CISA), the International Educational Development, Inc., the International Fellowship of Reconciliation, the International Organization for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Youth and Student Movement for the United Nations, Nord-Sud XXI – North-South XXI, the Union of Arab Jurists and the World Federation of Democratic Youth (WFDY)) made statements in connection with the session.

47. Also at the same meeting, the President of the Human Rights Council made a closing statement.





The deteriorating situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, and the recent killings in Al-Qusayr
A/HRC/23/L.2 and Rev.1
10
Technical assistance to Côte d’Ivoire in the field of human rights
