Cooperation and assistance to Ukraine in the field of human rights
926. At the 40th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representative of Ukraine introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.15/Rev.1, sponsored by Ukraine and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Japan and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
927. At the same meeting, the representative of Ukraine orally revised the draft resolution.
928. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Côte d’Ivoire, the Czech Republic, Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, Mexico and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
929. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution.
930. At the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, Indonesia, Kuwait, on behalf of State members of the Gulf Cooperation Council that are members of the Council, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
931. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Austria, Benin, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Against:
China, Cuba, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Abstaining:
Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam


932. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.15/Rev.1 was adopted by 23 votes to 4, with 19 abstentions (resolution 26/30).
933. At the same meeting, the representatives of the Argentina and Chile made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Cooperation and assistance to Ukraine in the field of human rights

