Elaboration of an international legally binding instrument on transnational corporations and other business enterprises with respect to human rights
178. At the 37th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representatives of Ecuador and South Africa introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.22/Rev.1, sponsored by Ecuador and South Africa and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Senegal joined the sponsors.
179. At the same meeting, the representative of Ecuador orally revised the draft resolution.
180. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
181. At the same meeting, the representatives of China, India, Ireland, Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, Japan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
182. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Argentina, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Gabon, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, United Arab Emirates
183. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.22/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted by 20 votes to 14, with 13 abstentions (resolution 26/9).
184. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representatives of Chile and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Elaboration of an international legally binding instrument on transnational corporations and other business enterprises with respect to human rights

