Human rights and the regulation of civilian acquisition, possession and use of firearms
222. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representatives of Ecuador and Peru introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.27, sponsored by Ecuador and Peru and co-sponsored by Chile, Ethiopia, Haiti, Hungary, Ireland, Spain, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Australia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Greece, Kazakhstan, Namibia, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Switzerland joined the sponsors.
223. At the same meeting, the representatives of Mexico, also on behalf of Colombia, and the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
224. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of),Viet Nam
Abstaining:
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United States of America
225. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.27 was adopted by 44 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions (resolution 26/16).
226. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representative of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
The right to education: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 8/4
227. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.28, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Andorra, Angola, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Norway, Paraguay, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burkina, Faso, Cabo Verde, Chile, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Japan, Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, Mozambique, Namibia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Peru, Poland, Rwanda, Senegal, South Africa, the State of Palestine, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Viet Nam joined the sponsors.
228. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
229. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.28 was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/17).
230. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Human rights and the regulation of civilian acquisition, possession and use of firearms

A/HRC/26/L.28/Rev.1

3

The right to education: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 8/4

