Human rights and climate change
254. At the 40th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representative of the Philippines (also on behalf of Bangladesh) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.33/Rev.1, sponsored by Bangladesh and the Philippines and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Bhutan, Cuba, El Salvador, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Georgia, Guatemala, Indonesia, Mauritania, Nepal, Nigeria, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the State of Palestine, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Costa Rica, Egypt (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Haiti, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Maldives, Nicaragua and Peru joined the sponsors.
255. At the same meeting, the representative of the Philippines orally revised the draft resolution.
256. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, the Maldives, Sierra Leone and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
257. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
258. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
259. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.33/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/27).
260. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
The negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights
261. At the 37th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Morocco introduced draft decision A/HRC/26/L.5, sponsored by Austria, Indonesia, Morocco and Poland and co-sponsored by Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Guatemala, New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Subsequently, Algeria, Cabo Verde, Israel, Philippines, the Republic of Moldova and Senegal joined the sponsors.
262. At the same meeting, draft decision A/HRC/26/L.5 was adopted without a vote (decision 26/115).
Human rights and climate change

