Mandate of the Independent Expert on human rights and international solidarity
166. At the 37th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.16, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Angola, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Indonesia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, South ‎Sudan, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Botswana, China, Ecuador, Egypt (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Namibia, Nicaragua, Philippines, the Russian Federation, Senegal and Viet Nam joined the sponsors.
167. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
168. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
169. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Italy, on behalf of European Union members that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
170. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.16 was adopted by 33 votes to 14 (resolution 26/6).
