Promotion and protection of the human rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas
312. At the 39th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representative of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.13, sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador and South Africa and co-sponsored by Angola, Benin, Congo, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, State of Palestine and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Argentina, Brazil, Philippines, Switzerland and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
313. At the same meeting, the representative of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) orally revised the draft resolution.
314. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba, Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and South Africa made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
315. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
316. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
317. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
Czech Republic, Republic of Korea, Romania, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Austria, Botswana, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia


318. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.13, as orally revised, was adopted by 29 votes to 5, with 13 abstentions (resolution 26/26).
Promotion and protection of the human rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas

A/HRC/26/L.14/Rev.1

4

