Protection of the family
189. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt and Sierra Leone introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.20/Rev.1, sponsored by Bangladesh, China, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt, El Salvador, Mauritania, Namibia, Qatar, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone and Tunisia and co-sponsored by Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Indonesia, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Nigeria, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Uganda and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Belarus, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
190. At the same meeting, the representative of Uruguay introduced amendment A/HRC/26/L.37 to the draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.20/Rev.1. A/HRC/26/L.37 was sponsored by Chile, France, Ireland and Uruguay and co-sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Latvia and Mexico joined the sponsors.
191. Under rule 116 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the representative of the Russian Federation formally moved to adjourn the consideration of amendment A/HRC/26/L.37 to draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.20/Rev.1, and requested a vote on the motion.
192. 224. Under the same rule, the Council heard two statements in favour of the motion by the representatives of China and Indonesia, and two statements against the motion by the representatives of Argentina and the United States of America.
193. A recorded vote was taken on the motion, which was adopted by 22 votes to 20, with 4 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Against:
Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Gabon, Maldives, Philippines, Viet Nam
194. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia announced that the amendment A/HRC/26/L.38 had been withdrawn.
195. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
196. At the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Argentina, Austria, also on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote in relation to A/HRC/26/L.20/Rev.1.
197. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
Austria, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
198. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.20/Rev.1 was adopted by 26 votes to 14, with 6 abstentions (resolution 26/11).
199. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representatives of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
