Situation of human rights in Belarus
299. At the 39th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representative of Greece (on behalf of the European Union) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.14/Rev.1, sponsored by Greece (on behalf of the European Union) and co-sponsored by Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
300. At the same meeting, the representative of Belarus made a statement as the State concerned.
301. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
302. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Cuba, the Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
303. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Against:
China, Cuba, India, Kazakhstan, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Abstaining:
Algeria, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates
304. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.14/Rev.1 was adopted by 24 votes to 7, with 16 abstentions (resolution 26/25).
Situation of human rights in Belarus

A/HRC/26/L.15/Rev.1

10

