Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities
238. At the 39th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representative of New Zealand introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.9, sponsored by Mexico and New Zealand and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Maldives, Montenegro, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, the United States of America, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Argentina, Canada, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Egypt (on behalf of the Arab Group), Estonia, Ethiopia, Georgia, Haiti, Iceland, India, Japan, Kenya, Liechtenstein, Malta, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Togo, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
239. At the same meeting, the representative of New Zealand orally revised the draft resolution.
240. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Italy, on behalf of the European Union, and Mexico made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
241. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution.
242. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.9, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/20).
Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities

