The continuing grave deterioration in the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic
285. At the 39th meeting, on 27 June 2014, the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.4/Rev.1, sponsored by France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Botswana, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Subsequently, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Mexico, Monaco, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Senegal, Sierra Leone and the United Arab Emirates joined the sponsors.
286. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland orally revised the draft resolution.
287. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Brazil and Italy, on behalf of the European Union, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
288. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.
289. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, China, Cuba, the Russian Federation and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
290. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Against:
Algeria, China, Cuba, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Abstaining:
Congo, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Viet Nam
291. Draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.4/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted by 32 votes to 5, with 9 abstentions (resolution 26/23).
The continuing grave deterioration in the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic

