The promotion, protection and enjoyment of human rights on the Internet
204. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Sweden introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.24, sponsored by Brazil, Nigeria, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey and the United States of America, and co-sponsored by Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, the State of Palestine, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay. Subsequently, Angola, El Salvador, Haiti, Kazakhstan, Monaco, Mongolia, Qatar, Switzerland and Timor-Leste joined the sponsors.
205. At the same meeting, the representative of Sweden orally revised the draft resolution.
206. Also at the same meeting, the representative of China introduced an oral amendment to the draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.24 as orally revised.
207. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil rejected the amendment to the draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.24 as orally revised.
208. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Costa Rica, Estonia, Ireland and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised and the oral amendment.
209. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Brazil and the United States of America a recorded vote was taken on the oral amendment to the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Algeria, China, Congo, Cuba, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
Against:
Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Gabon, India, Indonesia, Philippines
210. The oral amendment to the draft resolution as orally revised was rejected by 15 votes to 28, with 4 abstentions.
211. At the same meeting, the representatives of China, South Africa and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote, in which South African disassociated itself from the consensus on the draft resolution as orally revised.
212. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.24, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/13).
Human rights and the arbitrary deprivation of nationality
213. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.25, sponsored by the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Belarus, Cuba, Ecuador, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Haiti, Morocco, Namibia and Nicaragua joined the sponsors.
214. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
215. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.25 was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/14).
216. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
