The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health: sport and healthy lifestyles as contributing factors
231. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Brazil (also on behalf of Paraguay, Romania and South Africa) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.29, sponsored by Brazil, Paraguay, Romania and South Africa and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, El Salvador, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Peru, the Russian Federation, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Turkey, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Azerbaijan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, Chad, China, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Jordan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Luxembourg, the Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
232. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
233. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.29 was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/18).
234. At the 40th meeting on 27 June 2014, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Human rights of migrants: mandate of the special rapporteur on the human rights of migrants
235. At the 38th meeting, on 26 June 2014, the representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.31, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Angola, Armenia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ecuador, El Salvador, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Kyrgyzstan, Paraguay, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Argentina, Burkina Faso, Canada, Ethiopia, Georgia, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Niger, the Philippines, Portugal, Thailand and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
236. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
237. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/26/L.31 was adopted without a vote (resolution 26/19).
The right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health: sport and healthy lifestyles as contributing factors

