14/12 Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: ensuring due diligence in prevention
The Human Rights Council,
Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: ensuring due diligence in prevention
183. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Canada (also on behalf of Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bulgaria, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.9/Rev.1, sponsored by Canada and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bulgaria, Colombia, the Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, El Salvador, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Palestine, Republic of Moldova, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
184. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada orally revised the draft resolution.
185. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/12).
Question of the realization in all countries of economic, social and cultural rights: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 4/1
186. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.17, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Austria, Brazil, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Ukraine, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Switzerland and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
187. At the same meeting, the representative of Portugal orally revised the draft resolution.
188. Also at the same meeting, the representative of South Africa made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
189. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/13).
Accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: ensuring due diligence in prevention
