14/10 Enforced or involuntary disappearances
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the relevant articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which protect the right to life, liberty and security of person, the right not to be subjected to torture and the right to recognition as a person before the law,
Recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 20 (XXXVI) of 29 February 1980, in which the Commission established a working group to examine questions relevant to enforced or involuntary disappearances,
Enforced or involuntary disappearances
172. At the 35th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representatives of France (also on behalf of Argentina and Morocco) and Morocco introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.19, sponsored by Argentina, France and Morocco and co-sponsored by Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland and Uruguay. Subsequently, Albania, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chile, Cyprus, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, Lithuania, New Zealand, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Senegal, Serbia, Sweden, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
173. At the same meeting, the representative of Argentina orally revised the draft resolution.
174. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
175. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/10).
176. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Norway (also on behalf of Switzerland and Mexico) made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
14/10 Enforced or involuntary disappearances
21. In paragraphs 6 and 9 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.19, the Council requested:
(a) The Secretary-General to ensure that the Working Group on Enforced or Voluntary Disappearances received all the assistance and resources it required to perform its mandate;
(b) OHCHR to organize, within existing resources, a one-day event to commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the Working Group.
22. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, it is estimated that $31,300 would be required to hold the one-day event, for the travel of five participants to Geneva and conference servicing costs.
23. Requirements in support of the activities of the Working Group have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. With regard to the additional requirements of $31,300 for the event, the estimated extrabudgetary resources to be made available under section 23 during the biennium 2010–2011 included provision for the event. No additional appropriations would be therefore required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
24. With regard to the terms of paragraphs 6 and 9, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
A/HRC/14/L.20 Advisory services and technical assistance to Burundi in the field of human rights
25. In paragraph 4 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.20, the Council decided to extend the mandate of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in Burundi, in accordance with Council resolution 9/19.
26. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, it is estimated that $55,800 per annum would be required to implement the resolution.
27. The requirements in support of the independent expert have been provided for under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional appropriation would therefore be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
Annex III
Agenda
Item 1. Organizational and procedural matters
Item 2. Annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and reports of the Office of the High Commissioner and the Secretary-General
Item 3. Promotion and protection of all human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development
Item 4. Human rights situations that require the Council’s attention
Item 5. Human rights bodies and mechanisms
Item 6. Universal periodic review
Item 7. Human rights situation in Palestine and other occupied Arab territories
Item 8. Follow-up to and implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
Item 9. Racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance, follow-up to and implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Item 10. Technical assistance and capacity-building
Annex IV

[English only]

List of documents issued for the fourteenth session of the Human Rights Council
Documents issued in the general series
Symbol
Agenda item








Enforced or involuntary disappearances
