14/11 Freedom of religion or belief: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 36/55 of 25 November 1981, in which the Assembly proclaimed the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,
Recalling also article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 2, paragraph 2, of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and other relevant human rights provisions,
Recalling further its resolution 6/37 of 14 December 2007 and other resolutions on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief adopted by the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights,
Recalling its resolutions 5/1 on the institution-building of the Council and 5/2 on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Human Rights Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that the mandate holder shall discharge his/her duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,
1. Condemns all forms of intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief, as well as violations of the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief;
2. Stresses that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion or belief, which includes the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief of one’s choice and the freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest one’s religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance;
3. Condemns any advocacy of religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence, whether it involves the use of print, audio-visual or electronic media or any other means;
4. Emphasizes that restrictions on the freedom to manifest one’s religion or belief are permitted only if limitations are prescribed by law, are necessary to protect public safety, order, health or morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others, are non-discriminatory and are applied in a manner that does not vitiate the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion;
5. Calls upon States to adopt measures and policies to promote respect for places of worship and religious sites;
6. Expresses concern at the continued existence of instances of religious intolerance, as well as at emerging obstacles to the enjoyment of the right to freedom of religion or belief, inter alia:
(a) Instances of intolerance and violence directed against members of many religious minorities and other communities in various parts of the world;
(b) Incidents of religious hatred, discrimination, intolerance and violence, which may be manifested by the derogatory stereotyping, negative profiling and stigmatization of persons based on their religion or belief;
(c) Attacks on religious places, sites and shrines in violation of international law, in particular human rights and humanitarian law, as they have more than material significance on the dignity and lives of members of communities holding spiritual or religious beliefs;
(d) Instances, both in law and practice, that constitute violations of the fundamental right to freedom of religion or belief, including of the individual right to publicly express one’s spiritual and religious beliefs, taking into account the relevant articles of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as other international instruments;
(e) Constitutional and legislative systems that fail to provide adequate and effective guarantees of freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief to all without distinction;
7. Welcomes the report presented by the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief (A/HRC/13/40);
8. Also welcomes the work of the Special Rapporteur, and concludes that there is a need for the continued contribution of the Special Rapporteur to the protection, promotion and universal implementation of the right to freedom of religion or belief;
9. Decides to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur for a further period of three years;
10. Invites the Special Rapporteur to take into account the content of all previous resolutions on freedom of religion or belief, in particular the concerns expressed in the present resolution, while discharging her or his mandate in accordance with paragraph 18 of Council resolution 6/37 and when reporting to the Council;
11. Calls upon the Special Rapporteur to work with mass-media organizations to promote an atmosphere of respect and tolerance for religious and cultural diversity, as well as multiculturalism;
12. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Special Rapporteur receives the necessary resources to enable her or him to discharge her or his mandate fully;
13. Urges all Governments to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur and to respond favourably to her or his requests to visit their countries and to provide her or him with all necessary information to enable her or him to fulfil her or his mandate even more effectively;
14. Requests the Special Rapporteur to submit her or his reports to the Council in accordance with its annual programme of work, and the next annual report in 2011;
15. Decides to remain seized of this question under the same agenda item and to continue consideration of measures to implement the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief.
Freedom of religion or belief: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief
177. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Spain, also on behalf of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.5, sponsored by Spain and co-sponsored by Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Albania, Andorra, Australia, Chile, Colombia, Iceland, Japan, Montenegro, New Zealand, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
178. At the same meeting, the representative of Spain orally revised the draft resolution.
179. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Egypt, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
180. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
181. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/11).
182. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Algeria made comments in relation to the resolution.
14/11 Freedom of religion or belief: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief
5. In paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.5, the Council:
(a) Decided to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief for a further period of three years;
(b) Requested the Secretary-General to ensure that the Special Rapporteur received the necessary resources to enable her/him to discharge her/his mandate fully;
(c) Requested the Special Rapporteur to submit her/his reports to the Council in accordance with its annual programme of work and the next annual report in 2011.
6. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, it is estimated that $70,300 per annum or $140,600 per biennium would be required in response to its terms.
7. The estimated requirements of $70,300 per annum or $140,600 per biennium have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. Since the period of the terms of the draft resolution extends into the biennium 2012–2013, the requirements for that period will be considered in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012–2013. No additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
8. With regard to paragraph 4, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
14/8 Regional cooperation for the promotion and protection of human rights in the Asia-Pacific Region
9. In paragraph 2 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.8, the Council decided to convene the next session of the Workshop on Regional Cooperation for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights in the Asia-Pacific Region in Maldives in 2012.
10. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total amount of $283,100 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to cover the travel costs of participants and experts and staff of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) to attend and service the Workshop, respectively.
11. Since the period of the terms of the draft resolution relates to the biennium 2012–2013, the requirements will be considered in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012–2013.
12. Conference servicing costs, including translation and documentation, are expected to arise during the Workshop, which will be held for a duration of three days in Maldives in 2012. Although a summary report will be prepared by the Secretariat after the meeting, the associated costs will be met within the entitlements for document processing for the Council that would be considered within the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012–2013.
Freedom of religion or belief: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief
