14/16 From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
The Human Rights Council,
From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
735. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.3, sponsored by Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Indonesia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
736. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) orally revised the draft resolution.
737. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
738. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
739. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/16).
740. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Algeria made comments in relation to the resolution.
14/16 From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
1. In paragraph 2 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.3, the Human Rights Council decided to convene a high-level meeting at its sixteenth session through a panel discussion that would focus on the realization of the rights of peoples of African descent, and primarily to use the occasion as a preparatory process for the celebration of 2011 as the International Year for Peoples of African Descent.
2. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total of $29,800 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to cover the travel costs of five panel members.
3. The estimated requirements to implement the activities called for under the draft resolution have not been included under section 23 of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. The Secretariat will, to the extent possible, seek to identify areas from where the anticipated additional requirements of $29,800 may be redeployed within the provisions approved for section 23 for the biennium 2010–2011. The additional requirements of $29,800 to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution will be presented to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session in a revised estimates report resulting from resolutions and decisions adopted by the Council, in the context of its consideration on the absorption capacity within the approved appropriations for the biennium 2010–2011.
4. Accordingly, no additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution at the present time.
From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
