14/6 Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons
The Human Rights Council,
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons
163. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2010, the representatives of Austria and Uganda introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.18, sponsored by Austria and co-sponsored by Albania, Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Uganda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Armenia, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Georgia, Iceland, Italy, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
164. At the same meeting, the representative of Austria orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 3.
165. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
166. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/6).
14/6 Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons
17. In paragraphs 11, 12 (h), 16 and 17 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.18, the Human Rights Council:
(a) Decided to extend the mandate of the special procedure on the human rights of internally displaced persons as a Special Rapporteur for a period of three years;
(b) Requested the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons to further strengthen the cooperation established between the Representative of the Secretary-General and the United Nations, including in the framework of the Peacebuilding Commission, as well as other international and regional organizations, in particular his/her participation in the work of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee and its subsidiary bodies;
(c) Requested the Secretary-General and OHCHR to provide the Special Rapporteur with all the assistance and adequate staffing necessary to carry out his/her mandate effectively and to ensure that the mechanism worked in close cooperation with the Emergency Relief Coordinator, with the continued support of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;
(d) Invited the Special Rapporteur to continue to submit annual reports on the implementation of his/her mandate to the Council and the General Assembly.
18. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, it is estimated that $70,300 per annum or $140,600 per biennium would be required in response to its terms.
19. The estimated requirements of $70,300 per annum or $140,600 per biennium have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 with regard to the special procedure on the human rights of internally displaced persons. Since the period of the terms of the draft resolution extends into the biennium 2012–2013, the requirements for that period will be considered in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012–2013. No additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
20. With regard to paragraph 16, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons
