14/9 Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and all other relevant human rights instruments,
Recalling also all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, including Assembly resolutions 64/81 of 7 December 2009 and 64/174 of 18 December 2009, and Council resolution 10/23 of 26 March 2009, by which it established, for a period of three years, a special procedure entitled “independent expert in the field of cultural rights”,
Taking note of the declarations within the United Nations system on cultural diversity and international cultural cooperation, in particular the Declaration of the Principles of International Cultural Cooperation and the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on 4 November 1966 and 2 November 2001 respectively,
Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity
167. At the 35th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.14, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, El Salvador, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Armenia, Burkina Faso, China, the Dominican Republic, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Panama, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Serbia and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
168. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
169. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of France, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
170. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
171. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/9).
Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural rights of everyone and respect for cultural diversity
A/HRC/14/L.15/Rev.1
3
