14/14 Technical assistance and cooperation on human rights for Kyrgyzstan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Technical assistance and cooperation on human rights for Kyrgyzstan
753. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representatives of Kyrgyzstan and the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.2, sponsored by Kyrgyzstan and the United States. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
754. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America orally revised the draft resolution.
755. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil and Uruguay made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
756. At the same meeting, the representatives of China and the Russian Federation made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
757. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/14).
758. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Addressing attacks on Afghan schoolchildren
759. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Afghanistan and the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.7, sponsored by Afghanistan and the United States and co-sponsored by Australia, Canada, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, India, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Sweden and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
760. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America orally revised the draft resolution.
761. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Uruguay made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
762. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/15).
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
763. At the 36th meeting, on 18 June 2010, the representative of Nigeria on behalf of the Group of African States introduced draft decision A/HRC/14/L.16, sponsored by Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States). Subsequently, Albania, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Palestine, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United Republic of Tanzania, the United States of America and Yemen joined the sponsors.
764. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) orally revised the draft decision.
765. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Somalia made a statement as the concerned country.
766. At the same meeting, the draft decision was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter II, decision 14/119).
