14/1 The grave attacks by Israeli forces against the humanitarian boat convoy
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
The grave attacks by Israeli forces against the humanitarian boat convoy
44. At the 7th meeting, on 2 June 2010, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Group of Arab States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.1, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Palestine1 and Sudan1 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States).
45. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraphs 3 and 7, and adding new paragraphs 4 bis and 7 bis.
46. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement as a concerned country.
47. At the same meeting, the representative of Palestine made a statement as a concerned party.
48. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
49. At the same meeting, the representatives of France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
50. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.1 as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 3 against, with 9 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Mauritius, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovenia, South Africa, Uruguay

Against:

Italy, Netherlands, United States of America

Abstaining:

Belgium, Burkina Faso,[2] France, Hungary, Japan, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

51. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/1.
52. At the same meeting, the representatives of Norway and Nicaragua made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
The grave attacks by Israeli forces against the humanitarian boat convoy
