14/4 The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant international human rights instruments,
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
155. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2010, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.13, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Nicaragua, Nigeria, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Egypt, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.
156. At the same meeting, the representatives of France, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
157. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of France, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.32. The draft resolution was adopted by 31 votes in favour, 13 against, with 3 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Mauritius, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia
Against:
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, France, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Chile, Mexico, Norway
158. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/4.
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
