14/5 The role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the obligation of States under the Charter of the United Nations to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Reaffirming also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, and recalling the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and other human rights instruments, as well as the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the Council,
Reaffirming further that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated, interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and that all human rights must be treated in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis,
Expressing concern about continued human rights violations around the world,
The role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights
159. At the 34th meeting, on 17 June 2010, the representative of Ukraine introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.15/Rev.1, sponsored by Ukraine. Subsequently, Australia, Azerbaijan, Burkina Faso, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Georgia, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, Peru, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
160. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
161. At the same meeting, the representative of France, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
162. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 14/5).
14/5 The role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights
13. In paragraphs 5 and 6 of draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.15, the Council requested OHCHR:
(a) To consult States, treaty bodies, special procedures, national human rights institutions, civil society organizations and other relevant stakeholders on the role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights, and to compile and publish the result of these consultations on the OHCHR website;
(b) To convene a workshop, within existing resources, based on the above-mentioned consultations, on the role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights, with a view to contribute to further discussion on the issue, and to submit the outcome of the workshop to the Council at its sixteenth session.
14. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council, a total of $163,500 would be required to hold a one-day workshop (a) to cover travel costs of 10 experts (two from each regional group) ($64,500); (b) consultant services for two months ($14,900); and (c) conference servicing costs ($84,100), as follows:


United States dollars
Section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management
83 400
Section 23, Human Rights
79 400
Section 28 E, Administration, Geneva
700
Total
$163 500
15. Although provision has not been made in the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 to provide for the total associated costs of $163,500 for the event outlined in paragraph 14 above, the Secretariat will, to the extent possible, seek to identify areas from where the anticipated additional requirements of $163,500 may be redeployed within the provisions approved for sections 2, 23 and 28 E for the biennium 2010–2011. The additional requirements of $163,500 to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution will be presented to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session in a revised estimates report resulting from resolutions and decisions adopted by the Council, in the context of its consideration on the absorption capacity within the approved appropriations for the biennium 2010–2011.
16. Additional appropriations would therefore not be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution at this point.
The role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights
