Effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights: the activities of vulture funds

249. At the 41st meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representative of Argentina, also on behalf of Algeria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Cuba, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.26, sponsored by Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Cuba, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), and co-sponsored by Chile, El Salvador, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Lebanon, Paraguay and Peru. Subsequently, China, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Panama, the Philippines and the State of Palestine joined the sponsors.

250. At the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Brazil, Cuba, Morocco, Pakistan, the Russian Federation and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

251. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of France, Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council), Mexico, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

252. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Czech Republic, Germany, Japan, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Austria, Estonia, France, Ireland, Italy, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia

253. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.26 was adopted by 33 votes to 5, with 9 abstentions (resolution 27/30).

254. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

Effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights: the activities of vulture funds
A/HRC/27/L.27 and Rev.1
8
