Equal participation in political and public affairs

244. At the 40th meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representative of the Czech Republic, also on behalf of Botswana, Indonesia, the Netherlands and Peru, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.29/Rev.1, sponsored by Botswana, the Czech Republic, Indonesia, the Netherlands and Peru, and co-sponsored by Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Armenia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, the Congo, Ecuador, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Panama, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, Serbia, the State of Palestine, Switzerland, Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.

245. At the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

246. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

247. At the same meeting, the representatives of Saudi Arabia, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote. In its statement, the representative of the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council) disassociated the delegations of the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council from the consensus on operative paragraphs 4(h) and 4(i) of the draft resolution. In its statement, the representative of South Africa disassociated the delegation from the consensus on operative paragraph 6 of the draft resolution. In its statement, the representative of Saudi Arabia disassociated the delegation from the consensus on preambular paragraphs 2 and 8 and operative paragraphs 2 and 4(c) of the draft resolution.

248. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (resolution 27/24).

Equal participation in political and public affairs
A/HRC/27/L.30 and Rev.1
10
