Mandate of the Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order
188. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.16, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Lebanon, Sri Lanka, the State of Palestine, the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belarus, the Congo, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Namibia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Philippines, Senegal, South Sudan and the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.
189. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
190. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council) made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
191. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru

192. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.16 was adopted by 29 votes to 14, with 4 abstentions (resolution 27/9).

Mandate of the Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order
