Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights

200. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of Burkina Faso, also on behalf of Colombia and New Zealand, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.19/Rev.1, sponsored by Burkina Faso, Colombia and New Zealand, and co-sponsored by Australia, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Switzerland, Turkey, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Germany, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nigeria, the Philippines, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda, Serbia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
201. At the same meeting, the representatives of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia (on behalf of the States members and observers of the Gulf Cooperation Council) and South Africa made statements in explanation of vote before the vote. In its statement, the representative of Pakistan disassociated the delegation from the consensus on operative paragraph 2 of the draft resolution.
202. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (resolution 27/11).
203. At the 41st meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representative of India made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote, disassociating the delegation from the consensus on preambular paragraph 4 and operative paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft resolution.
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
