Preventable mortality and morbidity of children under 5 years of age as a human rights concern
212. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representatives of Botswana and Ireland, also on behalf of Austria, Mongolia and Uruguay, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.23, sponsored by Austria, Botswana, Ireland, Mongolia and Uruguay, and co-sponsored by Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Namibia, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Albania, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Belarus, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, Chile, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, Israel, Libya, Maldives, Mali, Malta, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panama, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Timor-Leste, Togo and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
213. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
214. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
215. Also at the same meeting, the representative of South Africa made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
216. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (resolution 27/14).
217. At the 41st meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representatives of India and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote after the vote. In its statement, the representative of India disassociated the delegation from the consensus on preambular paragraph 6 and operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolution.
Preventable mortality and morbidity of children under 5 years of age as a human rights concern
