Promotion of the right to peace

317. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.15/Rev.1, sponsored by Cuba (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), and co-sponsored by Angola, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, the State of Palestine and the Sudan. Subsequently, Belarus, China, the Congo, Indonesia, Namibia, Senegal, South Sudan, Togo and the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.
318. At the same meeting, the representative of Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
319. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
320. At the same meeting, at the request of the representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Japan, Republic of Korea, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Ireland, Italy, Montenegro, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia

321. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.15/Rev.1 was adopted by 33 votes to 9, with 5 abstentions (resolution 27/17).

Promotion of the right to peace
