Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence
71. At the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, the Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence, Pablo De Greiff, presented his report (A/HRC/27/56 and Add.1-3).
72. At the same meeting, the representatives of Spain and Uruguay made statements as the States concerned.
73. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, and the 11th meeting, on 12 September 2014, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Cuba, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the Republic of Korea, Sierra Leone, the United States of America;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Nepal, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Switzerland, Tunisia;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International; Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales (CELS) Asociación Civil; Colombian Commission of Jurists; Human Rights Now; International Educational Development, Inc.; Liberation; Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik.
74. At the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, and 11th meeting, on 12 September 2014, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
Working Group on Arbitrary Detention
75. At the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, the Chairperson of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, Mads Andenas, presented the Working Group’s reports (A/HRC/27/47, A/HRC/27/48 and Add.1-7).
76. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Greece, Hungary and Morocco made statements as the States concerned.
77. Also at the same meeting, the Conseil National des Droits de l’homme Maroc and the Greek National Commission for Human Rights made statements.
78. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, and the 11th meeting, on 12 September 2014, the following made statements and asked the Chairperson questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Cuba, France, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Maldives, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Angola, Bahrain, Belgium, Croatia, Iraq, Latvia, Norway, Switzerland, Tunisia, Ukraine, the State of Palestine;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Alsalam Foundation; Americans for Democracy & Human Rights in Bahrain Inc; Amnesty International; Commission to Study the Organization of Peace; Conectas Direitos Humanos; France Libertes : Fondation Danielle Mitterrand; Human Rights House Foundation; International Muslim Women's Union.
79. At the 11th meeting, on 12 September 2014, the Chairperson answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
80. At the 9th meeting, on 10 September 2014, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of the Russian Federation.
Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances
81. At the 11th meeting, on 12 September 2014, the Chairperson of the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances, Ariel Dulitzky, presented the report of the Working Group (A/HRC/27/49 and Add.1-2).
82. At the same meeting, the representative of Spain made a statement as the State concerned.
83. Also at the same meeting, the Defensor del Pueblo de España made a statement (by video message).
84. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 11th and 12th meetings, on the same day, the following made statements and asked the Chairperson questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Argentina, Chile, China, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Cuba, France, Ireland, Japan, Montenegro, Morocco, the Russian Federation, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Latvia, Nepal, Panama, Rwanda, Serbia, Sri Lanka;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: African Technical Association; African Technology Development Link; Alsalam Foundation; Americans for Democracy & Human Rights in Bahrain Inc; Asian Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Network (AITPN); Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights; International Service for Human Rights.
85. At the 11th and 12th meetings, on the same day, the Chairperson answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
86. Also at the 12th meeting, on the same day, statements in exercise of the right of reply were made by the representatives of Bahrain, Burundi, China, Japan, and Ukraine.
Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
87. At the 19th meeting, on 17 September 2014, the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, Victoria Lucia Tauli-Corpuz, presented her and her predecessor’s report (A/HRC/27/52 and Add.1–4).
88. At the same meeting, the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, Albert Deterville, presented the reports of the Expert Mechanism (A/HRC/27/64, A/HRC/27/65, A/HRC/27/66 and A/HRC/27/67) (see chapter V, C below).
89. At the 21st meeting, on the same day, the representatives of Canada, Panama and Peru made statements as the States concerned.
90. At the same meeting, the Canadian Human Rights Commission made a statement.
91. During the ensuing interactive dialogue, also at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur and the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Expert Mechanism questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Brazil, Chile, China, the Congo, Costa Rica (also on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Denmark[4] (also on behalf of Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden), Estonia, Ireland, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Ecuador, El Salvador, Iraq, Malaysia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Ukraine, and the Holy See;
(c) Observers for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: International Labour Organization, United Nations Children's Fund;
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observer for a national human rights institution: International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (ICC);
(f) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Foodfirst Information and Action Network (FIAN); Franciscans International; Indian Council of South America (CISA); International Institute for Peace; International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR) (also on behalf of National Coalition Against Racial Discrimination); Lawyers' Rights Watch Canada (also on behalf of Indigenous World Association); Minority Rights Group; VIVAT International (also on behalf of Franciscans International); World Environment and Resources Council (WERC).
92. At the same meeting, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made her concluding remarks.

93. Also at the same meeting, the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
94. At the same meeting, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of the Russian Federation.
B. Panels
Panel discussion on history teaching and memorialization processes
95. At its 4th meeting, on 9 September 2014, the Human Rights Council held a panel discussion on history teaching and memorialization processes, in accordance with Council resolution 25/19.
96. The United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights, Farida Shaheed, made introductory remarks and moderated the discussion for the panel.
97. At the same meeting, the panellists Dubravka Stojanovic, Sami Adwan, Marie Wilson, and Pablo de Greiff made statements.
98. The ensuing panel discussion was divided into two slots, which were held at the same meeting, on the same day. During the first speaking slot, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Austria, China, Estonia, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Ireland, Morocco, Sierra Leone;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Colombia, Lithuania, Uruguay;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Baha’i International Community; International Youth and Student Movement for the United Nations; Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik.
99. At the end of the first speaking slot, the panellists answered questions and made comments, and a video presentation “Acting Together on the World Stage: Performance and the Creative Transformation of Conflict” was screened.
100. The following made statements during the second speaking slot:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, France, Indonesia, Italy, Pakistan, Romania, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United States of America, Viet Nam;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Armenia, Israel, Rwanda, Serbia, Turkey;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, Human Rights Now, ONG Hope International.
101. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made concluding remarks.

Panel discussion on the protection of the human rights of persons deprived of their liberty
102. At the 7th meeting, on 10 September 2014, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 24/12, the Council held a panel discussion on the protection of the human rights of persons deprived of their liberty.
103. The Director of the Research and Right to Development Division of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Chairperson of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, Mads Andenas, moderated the discussion for the panel.
104. At the same meeting, the panellists Nigel Rodley, Martin Schönteich, Mario Coriolano, Taghreed Jaber, Gertrude Brinek, and Piera Barzano made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.
105. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, Burkina Faso, Estonia, France, Morocco, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the United States of America;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Colombia, Portugal, Switzerland;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS;
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observer for a national human rights institution: The Office of Public Defender (Ombudsman) of Georgia;
(f) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Friends World Committee for Consultation; International Catholic Child Bureau; Penal Reform International (also on behalf of American Civil Liberties Union; Centre for Legal and Social Studies (CELS); The International Legal Foundation Ltd).
106. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.
107. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, China, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Denmark, Egypt, Iceland, Iraq, Ukraine, Uruguay;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Children's Fund;
(d) Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Association for the Prevention of Torture; Defence for Children International.
108. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made their concluding remarks.
Panel discussion on the right to privacy in the digital age
109. At the 10th meeting, on 12 September 2014, pursuant to Human Rights Council decision 25/117, the Council held a panel discussion on the right to privacy in the digital age.
110. The United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Associate Professor at Nottingham University, Marko Milanovic, moderated the discussion for the panel.
111. At the same meeting, the panellists Catalina Botero, Sarah Cleveland, Yves Nissim, and Carly Nyst made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.
112. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Cuba (also on behalf of Algeria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Pakistan, the Russian Federation and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)), Estonia, Germany (also on behalf of Austria, Brazil, Liechtenstein, Mexico, Norway, Switzerland), India, Indonesia, Ireland, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Canada, Belgium, Malaysia;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization;
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: American Civil Liberties Union (also on behalf of Human Rights Watch); Association for Progressive Communications (APC).
113. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.
114. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, China, France, Italy, Romania, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Ecuador, the Netherlands, Slovenia;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Article 19 – International Centre Against Censorship, The; Korea Center for United Nations Human Rights Policy.
115. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made their concluding remarks.
Panel discussion on the protection of the family and its members
116. At its 13th meeting, on 15 September 2014, the Human Rights Council held a panel discussion on the protection of the family and its members, in accordance with Council resolution 26/11.
117. The Director of the Research and Right to Development Division of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Permanent Representative of the Republic of Sierra Leone to the United Nations Office and other international organizations at Geneva, Yvette Stevens, made introductory remarks and moderated the discussion.
118. At the same meeting, the panellists Aslan Khuseinovich Abashidze, Hiranti Wijemanne, Karen Bogenscheinder, Rosa Inés Floriano Carrera and Zitha Mokomane made statements.
119. The ensuing panel discussion was divided into two slots, which were held at the same meeting, on the same day. During the first speaking slot, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Australia[5] (also on behalf of Guatemala, Mexico, New Zealand and the United States of America), Chile, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Egypt[6] (also on behalf of Bangladesh, China, Côte d’Ivoire, El Salvador, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, Qatar, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, Tunisia, Uganda), Finland[7] (also on behalf of Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the Russian Federation (also on behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Malaysia, Mauritania, Myanmar, Namibia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, Zimbabwe), Slovenia[8] (also on behalf of Austria, Croatia), the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (also on behalf of Australia, Austria, Canada, Colombia, France, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United States of America, Uruguay), the United States of America (also on behalf of Chile, Colombia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay), Uruguay (also on behalf of Argentina, Canada, Ethiopia, Honduras, Italy, Maldives, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Poland, Sierra Leone, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zambia);
(b) Observer for an intergovernmental institution: European Union;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Allied Rainbow Communities International (on behalf of Amnesty International; Article 19 – International Centre Against Censorship; International Service for Human Rights; International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission; International Lesbian and Gay Association), Howard Center for Family, Religion and Society, Plan International, Inc. (on behalf of SOS Children's Villages International; Defence for Children International; International Federation Terre des Hommes; Groupe des ONG pour la Convention relative aux droits de l'enfant; International Federation of Social Workers; Save the Children International; World Vision International);
120. At the end of the first speaking slot the panellists answered questions and made comments.
121. The following made statements during the second speaking slot:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: the Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), Germany, Iran (Islamic Republic of)[9] (also on behalf of Egypt and Pakistan), Ireland, Namibia, Norway, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the League of Arab States);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Egypt, Qatar, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Caritas Internationalis (International Confederation of Catholic Charities) (also on behalf of Associazione Comunità Papa Giovanni XXIII; Company of the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul; Edmund Rice International Limited; Association internationale des charites – International association of charities; International Catholic Child Bureau; International Institute of Mary Our Help of the Salesians of Don Bosco; New Humanity; Pax Romana (International Catholic Movement for Intellectual and Cultural Affairs and International Movement of Catholic Students); International Volunteerism Organization for Women, Education and Development – VIDES; World Union of Catholic Women's Organizations), Groupe des ONG pour la Convention relative aux droits de l'enfant.
122. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made concluding remarks.
Half-day panel discussion on the rights of indigenous peoples

123. At its 20th meeting, on 17 September 2014, the Human Rights Council held a half-day panel discussion on the promotion and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples in natural disaster risk reduction, and prevention and preparedness initiatives, in accordance with Council resolutions 18/8 and 24/10.

124. The United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, Victoria Tauli-Corpuz, made introductory remarks and moderated the discussion.

125. At the same meeting, the panellists Albert Deterville, Alejandro Maldonado, Giovanni Reyes, Aissatou Oumarou Ibrahim, and Margareta Wahlström made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.

126. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:

(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: the Congo, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Estonia, Germany, Mexico, the Philippines, the United States of America;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Canada, Denmark, El Salvador;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Indian Council of South America (CISA); International Association of Schools of Social Work.

127. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.

128. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:

(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Brazil, Ireland, Morocco, the Russian Federation;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Finland;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Asia Indigenous People Pact; International Movement Against all Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR); Lawyers’ Rights Watch Canada.

129. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made concluding remarks.
Panel discussion on the role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights
130. At the 23rd meeting, on 18 September 2014, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 24/16, the Council held a panel discussion on the role of prevention in the promotion and protection of human rights.
131. The United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Adviser on Human Rights and Refugees at Quaker United Nations Office, Rachel Brett, moderated the discussion for the panel.
132. At the same meeting, the panellists Rita Izsák, Benyam Dawit Mezmur, Sima Samar, Mark Thomson, and Renato Zerbini Ribeiro Leão made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.
133. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Australia[10] (also on behalf of Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Ghana, Hungary the Netherlands, Nigeria, Rwanda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay), Austria, Estonia, India, Maldives, Morocco, the Russian Federation (also on behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), China, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam), Senegal[11] (on behalf of members and observers of the International Organization of la Francophonie);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Lithuania, Poland, the Republic of Moldova;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: African Technology Development Link; Americans for Democracy & Human Rights in Bahrain Inc.
134. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.
135. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Cuba, the Republic of Korea, Sierra Leone, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Slovenia, the Sudan, Timor-Leste, Ukraine;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: Organization of Islamic Cooperation;
(d) Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: International Association for Democracy in Africa; United Schools International.
136. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made their concluding remarks.
Panel discussion on ensuring use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in counter-terrorism and military operations in accordance with international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law
137. At the 28th meeting, on 22 September 2014, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 25/22, the Council held a panel discussion on ensuring use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in counter-terrorism and military operations in accordance with international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law.
138. The United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Co-Director of the Oxford Institute for Ethics, Law and Armed Conflict at the Oxford University, Dapo Akande, moderated the discussion for the panel.
139. At the same meeting, the panellists Shahzad Akbar, Alex Conte, Ben Emmerson, Christof Heyns, and Pardiss Kebriaei made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.
140. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: China, Cuba, France, Germany, Ireland, Pakistan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Ecuador, the Netherlands;
(c) Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: American Civil Liberties Union; Amnesty International; Organization for Defending Victims of Violence.
141. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.
142. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Brazil, Chile, Indonesia, the Russian Federation, South Africa;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Iran (Islamic Republic of), Malaysia, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Switzerland;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Open Society Institute; Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.
143. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made their concluding remarks.
Panel discussion on accelerating global efforts to end violence against children
144. At the 31st meeting, on 23 September 2014, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 25/10, the Council held a panel discussion on accelerating global efforts to end violence against children.
145. The Director of the Research and Right to Development Division of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights made an opening statement for the panel. The Associate Director for Child Protection of the Programme Division at the United Nations Children's Fund, Susan Bissell, moderated the discussion for the panel.
146. At the same meeting, the panellists Marta Santos Pais, Pavel Astakhov, Benyam Dawit Mezmur, Fatiha Hadj Salah, Jorge Freyre and Laila Khondkar made statements. The Council divided the panel discussion into two slots.
147. During the ensuing panel discussion for the first slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Burkina Faso, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), the Philippines (on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations), Sweden[12] (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway), Timor-Leste[13] (also on behalf of Angola, Brazil, Cabo Verde, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal, Sao Tome and Principe), the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Croatia, Paraguay, Tunisia;

(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observer for a national human rights institution: Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights;
(e) Observer for a non-governmental organization: Save the Children International (also on behalf of Child Helpline International; Groupe des ONG pour la Convention relative aux droits de l'enfant; International Catholic Child Bureau; Myochikai (Arigatou International); SOS Children’s Villages International; Terre des Hommes Federation Internationale).
148. At the end of the first slot, at the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made comments.
149. During the discussion for the second slot, at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the panellists questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, India, Mexico, Montenegro, the United Arab Emirates;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lithuania, Spain, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Ukraine;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: British Humanist Association; International Institute for Non-aligned Studies; World Organisation Against Torture (also on behalf of Defence for Children International).
150. At the same meeting, the panellists answered questions and made their concluding remarks.

Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence

169. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.4, sponsored by Argentina, Austria, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, France, Maldives, Morocco, Peru, Switzerland and Uruguay, and co-sponsored by Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the State of Palestine, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, and the United States of America. Subsequently, Albania, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Canada, Chad, Chile, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Honduras, Ireland, Mali, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, the Republic of Korea, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Timor-Leste, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
170. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland orally revised the draft resolution.
171. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Argentina made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
172. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
173. At the same meeting, the draft resolution as orally revised was adopted without a vote (resolution 27/3).
Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence
A/HRC/27/L.5 and Rev.1
4
