The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination

193. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.17, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Peru, South Africa, the State of Palestine, the Sudan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Angola, Belarus, Chile, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, Senegal, South Sudan, the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
194. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
195. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council) made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
196. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Mexico

197. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.17 as orally revised was adopted by 32 votes to 14, with 1 abstention (resolution 27/10).

198. At the 41st meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representative of Argentina made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

199. At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made a statement.

The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination
A/HRC/27/L.18 and Rev.1
10
