The right to development
162. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.3, sponsored by the Islamic Republic of Iran (on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement) and co-sponsored by Brazil and China. Subsequently, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
163. At the same meeting, the representatives of Pakistan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
164. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
165. At the same meeting, the representatives of France, Italy (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council), Japan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
166. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Gabon, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

United States of America

Abstaining:

Japan, Republic of Korea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

167. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.3 was adopted by 42 votes to 1, with 4 abstentions (resolution 27/2).

168. At the 41st meeting, on 26 September 2014, the representatives of Sierra Leone and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.

The right to development
