The continuing grave deterioration in the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic

301. At the 39th meeting, on 25 September 2014, the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, also on behalf of France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, Turkey and the United States of America, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.5/Rev.1, sponsored by France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, Andorra, Bahrain, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Malta, Norway, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Sweden and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
302. At the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Italy (on behalf of the European Union) and the Russian Federation made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
303. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.
304. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Brazil, China, Cuba, Mexico and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
305. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

Abstaining:

Congo, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Viet Nam

306. Draft resolution A/HRC/27/L.5/Rev.1 was adopted by 32 votes to 5, with 10 abstentions (resolution 27/16).

The continuing grave deterioration in the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic
