20/6 Elimination of discrimination against women
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Guided also by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,

Elimination of discrimination against women
138. At the 31st meeting, on 5 July 2012, the representative of Colombia (also on behalf of Mexico) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.11, sponsored by Colombia and Mexico and co-sponsored by Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Angola, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Morocco, Namibia, the Netherlands, Panama, the Philippines, Qatar, the Republic of Moldova, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Uganda and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
139. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/6).
The right to education: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 8/4
140. At the 31st meeting, on 5 July 2012, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.12, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Australia, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, the Congo, Djibouti, Ecuador, Estonia, Haiti, Indonesia, Japan, Mozambique, Namibia, Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.
141. At the same meeting, the representatives of Thailand and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
142. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/7).
Elimination of discrimination against women
