20/15 Promotion of the right to peace
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling all previous resolutions on the promotion of the right of peoples to peace adopted by the General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, in particular Council resolutions 14/3 of 17 June 2010 and 17/16 of 17 June 2011, in which the Council requested the Advisory Committee, in consultation with Member States, civil society, academia and all relevant stakeholders, to prepare a draft declaration on the right of peoples to peace,

Recalling also General Assembly resolution 39/11 of 12 November 1984 entitled “Declaration of the Right of Peoples to Peace” and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,

Determined to foster strict respect for the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

Welcoming the important work being carried out by civil society organizations for the promotion of the right to peace and their contribution to the development of this issue,

Taking note of the draft declaration prepared by the Advisory Committee contained in its study[22] submitted to the Human Rights Council,

Bearing in mind the progressive development of this issue,

1. Decides to establish an open-ended intergovernmental working group with the mandate of progressively negotiating a draft United Nations declaration on the right to peace, on the basis of the draft submitted by the Advisory Committee, and without prejudging relevant past, present and future views and proposals;

2. Also decides that the working group shall hold its first session for four working days in 2013, before the twenty-second session of the Human Rights Council;

3. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide the working group with the assistance necessary for it to fulfil its mandate;

4. Requests the President of the Human Rights Council to invite the Chairperson of the Advisory Committee drafting group on the draft declaration to participate in the first session of the working group;

5. Invites States, civil society and all relevant stakeholders to contribute actively and constructively to the work of the working group;

6. Requests the working group to submit a report on progress made to the Human Rights Council for consideration at its twenty-third session.

Promotion of the right to peace
214. At the 32nd meeting, on 5 July 2012, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.16, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), China, the Congo, Costa Rica, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lebanon, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Palestine, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Libya, Namibia, Nigeria and Senegal joined the sponsors.
215. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
216. Also at the same meeting, the representative of China made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
217. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
218. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Austria (also on behalf of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania and Spain) and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
219. At the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 34 in favour, 1 against, with 12 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay
Against:
United States of America
Abstaining:
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Italy, Norway, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Switzerland
220. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
221. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/15.
Promotion of the right to peace
