20/13 Situation of human rights in Belarus
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 17/24 of 17 June 2011, and deploring the lack of cooperation by the Government of Belarus with the requests of the Council made in that resolution, including the denial of access to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and several thematic special procedures mandate holders to the country,
Welcoming the oral and comprehensive written[18] reports of the High Commissioner on the situation of human rights in Belarus, presented to the Council at its eighteenth and twentieth sessions respectively, and regretting the lack of implementation by the Government of Belarus of the preliminary recommendations made in the oral report,
1. Expresses grave concern at the findings of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in her report18 that suggest the existence of a pattern of serious violations of human rights since 19 December 2010, that is of a systemic nature, and includes intensified restrictions on the fundamental freedoms of association, assembly, opinion and expression, including with regard to the media, as well as allegations of torture and ill-treatment in custody, impunity of perpetrators of human rights violations and abuses, harassment of civil society organizations and human rights defenders, violations of due process and fair trial safeguards, and pressure on defence lawyers;
2. Urges the Government of Belarus to immediately and unconditionally release and rehabilitate all political prisoners, to address, through comprehensive, transparent and credible investigations, reports of torture and ill-treatment, to implement all other recommendations contained in the report of the High Commissioner, and to put an immediate end to arbitrary detention of human rights defenders, the increased use of short-term arbitrary detention and arbitrary travel bans aimed at intimidating representatives of the political opposition and the media, as well as human rights defenders and civil society;
3. Decides to appoint a special rapporteur to monitor the situation of human rights in Belarus and to make recommendations for its improvement; to help to implement the recommendations contained in the report of the High Commissioner; to assist the Government of Belarus in fulfilling its human rights obligations; to offer support and advice to civil society; to seek, receive, examine and act on information from all relevant stakeholders pertaining to the situation of human rights in Belarus; and to report annually to the Human Rights Council and to the General Assembly in accordance with their respective programmes of work;
4. Calls upon the Government of Belarus to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur and to provide him/her access to visit the country, as well as the information necessary to facilitate the fulfilment of the mandate;
5. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to provide the Special Rapporteur with the assistance and resources necessary to allow the fulfilment of the mandate.
Situation of human rights in Belarus
183. At the 31st meeting, on 5 July 2012, the representative of Cyprus (on behalf of the European Union) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.7, sponsored by Denmark (on behalf of the European Union) and co-sponsored by Albania, Canada, Croatia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Botswana, Japan and New Zealand joined the sponsors.
184. At the same meeting, the representative of Belarus made a statement as the State concerned.
185. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
186. At the same meeting, the representatives of Bangladesh, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, the Russian Federation and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
187. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 22 in favour, 5 against, with 20 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Austria, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Maldives, Mauritius, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America
Against:
China, Cuba, Ecuador, India, Russian Federation
Abstaining:
Angola, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Djibouti, Guatemala, Indonesia, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, Nigeria, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay
188. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/13.
189. At the 34th meeting, on 6 July 2012, the representative of Norway (also on behalf of Belgium, Costa Rica, Italy, Spain and Switzerland) made general comments in relation to the adopted resolution.
Situation of human rights in Mali
190. At the 33rd meeting, on 6 July 2012, the representative of Senegal (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.20, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
191. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
192. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Mali made a statement as the State concerned.
193. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
194. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/17).
Situation of human rights in Belarus
