20/10 The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant international human rights instruments,
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
150. At the 31st meeting, on 5 July 2012, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/20/L.17, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Congo, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lebanon, Morocco, Nicaragua, Palestine, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Namibia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Senegal and South Africa joined the sponsors.
151. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
152. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
153. At the same meeting, the representatives of Austria (on behalf of Members of the European Union that are Members of the Human Rights Council) and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
154. Also at the same meeting, at the request of Austria (on behalf of Members of the European Union that are Members of the Human Rights Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 31 in favour, 11 against, with 5 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nigeria, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay
Against:
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico, Norway, Peru
155. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 20/10.
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
