19/4 Adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living in the context of disaster settings
The Human Rights Council,
Adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living in the context of disaster settings
189. At the 52nd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Finland, also on behalf of Germany, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.4, sponsored by Germany and Finland and co-sponsored by Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Estonia, France, Georgia, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Andorra, Morocco, the Netherlands, Rwanda, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Tunisia and Turkey joined the sponsors.
190. At the same meeting, the representative of Finland orally revised the draft resolution.
191. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
192. At the same meeting, the representatives of India and Saudi Arabia (also on behalf of Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, the Gambia, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, the Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Qatar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Suriname, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Togo, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uganda, Uzbekistan and Yemen) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating themselves from the consensus in relation to the seventh preambular paragraph of the draft resolution.
193. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/4).
Adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living in the context of disaster settings
A/HRC/19/L.5/Rev.1
3
