19/28 Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
993. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representatives of Somalia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.28/Rev.1, sponsored by Somalia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and co-sponsored by Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Honduras, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Maldives, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal (on behalf of the Group of African States), Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Japan, Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritania (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Monaco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukraine and Yemen joined the sponsors.
994. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
995. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Mauritania made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
996. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/28).
Situation of human rights in Haiti
997. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced a draft President’s statement (A/HRC/19/L.32).
998. At the same meeting, the President of the Human Rights Council orally revised the draft statement.
999. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Haiti made a statement as the State concerned.
1000. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft president’s statement.
1001. Also at the same meeting, the President’s statement, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter III, PRST 19/2).
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
