19/23 Forum on Minority Issues
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities adopted by consensus by the General Assembly by its resolution 47/135 of 18 December 1992, and taking into consideration article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as well as other relevant existing international standards and national legislation,
Recalling also all resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, in particular Council resolution 6/15 of 28 September 2007, in which the Council established the Forum on Minority Issues and decided to review its work after four years,
Noting that 2012 marks the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities,
Affirming that the above-mentioned anniversary offers an important opportunity to reflect on the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, as well as on achievements, best practices and challenges with regard to the implementation of the Declaration,
Commending the Independent Expert on minority issues for the work done and the important role in raising the level of awareness of, and in giving added visibility to, the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities and for the ongoing efforts to promote and protect their rights in order to ensure equitable development and peaceful and stable societies, including through close cooperation with Governments, relevant United Nations bodies and mechanisms and non-governmental organizations,
Emphasizing the need for reinforced efforts to meet the goal of the full realization of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, including by addressing their economic and social conditions and marginalization, as well as to end any type of discrimination against them,
Affirming that effective measures and the creation of favourable conditions for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, ensuring effective non-discrimination and equality for all, as well as full and effective participation in matters affecting them, contribute to the prevention and peaceful solution of human rights problems and situations involving minorities,
Underlining the need to pay specific attention to the negative impact of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance on the situation of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, and drawing attention to the relevant provisions of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted in September 2001 by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, including the provisions on forms of multiple discrimination,
Emphasizing the importance of dialogue among all relevant stakeholders on the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities as an integral part of the development of society as a whole, including the sharing of best practices, such as for the promotion of mutual understanding of minority issues, managing diversity by recognizing plural identities, and promoting inclusive and stable societies, as well as social cohesion therein,
Emphasizing also the importance of national processes aimed at promoting and strengthening dialogue between all relevant stakeholders on issues relating to the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities with a view to ensuring the realization of their rights without discrimination and to help build stable societies,
Emphasizing further the important role that national institutions can play in the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, as well as in early warning and awareness-raising measures to address problems regarding minority situations,
1. Takes note of the report of the Independent Expert on minority issues,[35] which contains, inter alia, an update on the work of the Forum on Minority Issues;
2. Also takes note of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities;[36]
3. Further takes note of the completion of the first four sessions of the Forum on Minority Issues, addressing the right to education, the right to effective political participation, the right to effective participation in economic life and the rights of minority women and girls and which, through the widespread participation of stakeholders, has provided an important platform for promoting dialogue on these topics, and encourages States to take into consideration, as appropriate, relevant recommendations of the Forum;
4. Commends the Forum for its contribution to the efforts of the High Commissioner to improve cooperation among United Nations mechanisms, bodies and specialized agencies, funds and programmes on activities relating to the promotion and protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including at the regional level, and expresses its expectation that the Forum will continue to contribute to those efforts;
5. Reaffirms the role of the Forum as an important platform for promoting dialogue and cooperation on issues pertaining to persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, which provides thematic contributions and expertise to the work of the Independent Expert and identifies best practices, challenges, opportunities and initiatives for the further implementation of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities;
6. Decides that the Forum shall remain open to the participation of States, United Nations mechanisms, bodies and specialized agencies, funds and programmes, intergovernmental organizations, regional organizations and mechanisms in the field of human rights, national human rights institutions and other relevant national bodies, academics and experts on minority issues and non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council; the Forum shall also remain open to other non-governmental organizations whose aims and purposes are in conformity with the spirit, purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, based on arrangements, including Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/31 of 25 July 1996, and practices observed by the Commission on Human Rights, through an open and transparent accreditation procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Human Rights Council, which will provide for the timely information on participation and consultations with States concerned;
7. Invites States, United Nations mechanisms, bodies, specialized agencies, funds and programmes, and regional, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and national human rights institutions, as well as academics and experts on minority issues, to continue to participate actively in the sessions of the Forum;
8. Decides that the Forum shall continue to meet annually for two working days allocated to thematic discussions;
9. Requests the President of the Human Rights Council to continue to appoint for each session, on the basis of regional rotation, and in consultation with regional groups, a chairperson of the Forum among experts on minority issues, nominated by members and observers of the Council; the chairperson, serving in his/her personal capacity, shall be responsible for the preparation of a summary of the discussion of the Forum, to be made available to all participants of the Forum;
10. Decides that the Independent Expert shall continue to guide the work of the Forum and prepare its annual meetings, and invites him/her to report on the thematic recommendations of the Forum and make recommendations for future thematic subjects, for consideration by the Human Rights Council;
11. Requests the High Commissioner to provide all the necessary support to facilitate, in a transparent manner, the convening of the Forum and the participation of relevant stakeholders from every region in its meetings, giving particular attention to ensuring the broadest possible and equitable participation, including, in particular, the representation of women;
12. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Forum, from within existing resources of the United Nations, with all the services and facilities necessary to fulfil its mandate;
13. Invites the High Commissioner to continue to seek voluntary contributions to the Forum to facilitate participation, in particular of those coming from developing countries, and in doing so to pay particular attention to ensuring the participation of young people and women;
14. Decides to continue consideration of this important matter at a future session in conformity with its annual programme of work.
Forum on Minority Issues
328. At the 54th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Austria introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.11, sponsored by Austria and co-sponsored by Albania, Armenia, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, Uganda, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Cyprus, Ethiopia, Guinea, Lebanon, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, San Marino, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Ukraine joined the sponsors.
329. At the same meeting, the representative of China introduced draft amendments to the draft resolution as contained in A/HRC/19/L.41 and A/HRC/19/L.42, sponsored by China. The representative of China also introduced oral revisions to A/HRC/19/L.41.
330. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Austria made general comments on the draft amendments, by which A/HRC/19/L.42 was adopted without a vote.
331. At the same meeting, the secretariat of the Human Rights Council made a statement regarding draft amendment A/HRC/19/L.41.
332. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Austria, Belgium (on behalf of Member States of the European Union that are Members of the Council), China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Norway and Switzerland made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as amended by A/HRC/19/L.42, and on draft amendment A/HRC/19/L.41, as orally revised.
333. At the same meeting, the representatives of the Philippines and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote before the vote in relation to draft amendment A/HRC/19/L.41, as orally revised.
334. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Belgium (on behalf of Member States of the European Union that are Members of the Council), Costa Rica, Norway and Switzerland, a recorded vote was taken on draft amendment A/HRC/19/L.41 as orally revised. The draft amendment, as orally revised, was rejected by 15 votes in favour, 18 against, with 12 abstentions.
335. At the same meeting, the representative of China made general comments in relation to draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.11, as amended by A/HRC/19/L.42, disassociating from consensus on the draft resolution.
336. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as amended by A/HRC/19/L.42, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/23).
Social Forum
337. At the 54th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.20, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Malaysia, Nicaragua, Palestine, Panama, Peru, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Angola, Bangladesh, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Haiti, Lebanon, Serbia, South Africa and the Sudan joined the sponsors.
338. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.
339. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Belgium (on behalf of Member States of the European Union that are Members of the Council), Costa Rica, Peru, Switzerland, the United States of America and Uruguay made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised, in which Belgium (on behalf of Member States of the European Union that are Members of the Council) and the United States of America disassociated from consensus on the draft resolution.
340. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
341. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/24).
Forum on Minority Issues
