19/31 Integrity of the judicial system
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and articles 2, 4, 6, 7, 10, 14, 15, 16 and 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,
Recalling other important documents on the issue of the integrity of the judiciary endorsed by various forums of the United Nations, in particular the Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary, the Basic Principles on the Role of Lawyers, the Guidelines on the Role of Prosecutors, the Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power, the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, the Basic Principles for the Treatment of Prisoners, the Body of Principles for the Protection of All Persons under Any Form of Detention or Imprisonment and the Safeguards guaranteeing protection of the rights of those facing the death penalty, as well as the Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct,
Integrity of the judicial system
222. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.5/Rev.1, sponsored by the Russian Federation. Subsequently, Belarus, Brazil, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, Honduras, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Morocco, Serbia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
223. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation orally revised the draft resolution.
224. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Belgium, on behalf of Members of the European Union that are Members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
225. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments, disassociating itself from consensus on the draft resolution.
226. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/31).
Integrity of the judicial system
