19/17 Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,
Reaffirming that all States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable instruments,
Recalling relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, the Human Rights Council, the Security Council and the General Assembly reaffirming, inter alia, the illegality of the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories, including in East Jerusalem,
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
953. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.35, sponsored by Mauritania (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and Palestine, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
954. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.
955. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
956. At the same meeting, the representatives of Austria, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic (also on behalf of Hungary, Poland and Romania), Italy (also on behalf of Spain), Mexico and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
957. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 36 votes in favour, 1 against, with 10 abstentions.
958. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/17.
Follow-up to the report of the United Nations independent international fact-finding mission on the Gaza conflict
959. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.36, sponsored by Mauritania (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and Palestine, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Nicaragua joined the sponsors.
960. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
961. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are Members of the Human Rights Council), India and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
962. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 29 votes in favour, 1 against, with 17 abstentions.
963. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/18.
