19/2 Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant instruments,
Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
80. At the 52nd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.2, sponsored by the United States. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
81. At the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of members of the European Union that are members of the Council), China, Cuba and the Czech Republic made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
82. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Sri Lanka made a statement as the State concerned.
83. At the same meeting, the representatives of Angola, Bangladesh, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, Thailand, Uganda and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
84. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.2. The draft resolution was adopted by 24 votes in favour, 15 against, with 8 abstentions.
85. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/2.
86. At the same meeting, the representatives of India made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
Promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka
