19/5 Question of the realization in all countries of economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles relating to economic, social and cultural rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,
Recalling that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,[9] the 2005 World Summit Outcome[10] and General Assembly resolution 60/251 of 15 March 2006, in which the Assembly established the Human Rights Council, all affirm that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated, interdependent and mutually reinforcing and must be treated in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis, and recalling also that the promotion and protection of one category of rights should never exempt States from the promotion and protection of the other rights,
Question of the realization in all countries of economic, social and cultural rights
194. At the 52nd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.10/Rev.1, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Albania, Angola, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Nicaragua, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Romania, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukraine, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belarus, Cape Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, Estonia, Guinea, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, the Netherlands, Panama, South Africa, Sweden, Timor-Leste and Tunisia joined the sponsors.
195. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
196. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
197. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/5).
Mandate of Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights
198. At the 52nd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.18, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Austria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Burkina Faso, the Congo, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Ecuador, France, Georgia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Palestine, Portugal, the Russian Federation, Spain, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Angola, Bangladesh, China, the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Haiti, Lebanon, Nigeria, Senegal, the Sudan and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
199. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
200. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/6).
Question of the realization in all countries of economic, social and cultural rights
