19/15 Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
The Human Rights Council,
Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
943. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.33, sponsored by Mauritania (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and Palestine, and co-sponsored by Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Finland, France, Greece, Malta, Monaco, Nicaragua, San Marino, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden joined the sponsors.
944. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement as the State concerned, and the representative of Palestine made a statement as the party concerned.
945. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote on draft resolutions A/HRC/19/L.33 and A/HRC/19/L.34.
946. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.33. The draft resolution was adopted by 46 votes in favour, 1 against.
947. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/15.
Situation of human rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem
948. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.34, sponsored by Mauritania (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and Palestine, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Nicaragua joined the sponsors.
949. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
950. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are Members of the Human Rights Council) made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
951. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 44 votes in favour, 1 against, with 2 abstentions.
952. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/16.
Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
