19/37 Rights of the child
The Human Rights Council,
Emphasizing that the Convention on the Rights of the Child constitutes the standard in the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, and bearing in mind the importance of the Optional Protocols to the Convention, as well as other human rights instruments,
Rights of the child
254. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Uruguay introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.31, sponsored by Denmark (on behalf of the European Union) and Uruguay (on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States) and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, the Congo, Croatia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, El Salvador, Georgia, Iceland, Israel, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritania, Montenegro, Nigeria, Norway, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino, Serbia, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Ukraine. Subsequently, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Egypt, Haiti, Jamaica, Lebanon, Morocco, Senegal, Somalia, Switzerland, Tunisia and Uganda joined the sponsors.
255. At the same meeting, the representative of Uruguay orally revised the draft resolution.
256. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Saudi Arabia (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
257. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/37).
258. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
The negative impact of the non-repatriation of funds of illicit origin to the countries of origin on the enjoyment of human rights
259. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Egypt introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.16/Rev.1, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Cuba and Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation) joined the sponsors.
260. At the same meeting, the representative of Belgium, on behalf of Members of the European Union that are Members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
261. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
262. At the same meeting, the representatives of Norway and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
263. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 35 votes in favour, 1 against, with 11 abstentions.
264. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/38.
Rights of the child
