19/12 Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant international human rights instruments,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 16/9 of 24 March 2011, General Assembly resolution 66/175 of 19 December 2011, and all previous resolutions of the Assembly on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, and regretting the lack of cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Iran with the requests of the Council and the Assembly made in those resolutions,
Welcoming the report and recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran submitted to the Human Rights Council,[21] and expressing serious concern at the developments noted in that report as well as the lack of access permitted to the Special Rapporteur to travel to the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolutions 5/1, on the institution-building of the Council, and 5/2, on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that mandate holders are to discharge their duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,
1. Decides to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran for a further period of one year, and requests the Special Rapporteur to submit a report on the implementation of his mandate to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-second session and to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session;
2. Calls upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur and to permit him access to visit the country as well as to provide all information necessary to allow the fulfilment of the mandate;
3. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with the resources necessary to fulfil the mandate.
Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
292. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representative of Sweden introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.22, sponsored by Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America, and co-sponsored by Australia, Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Andorra and Israel joined the sponsors.
293. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
294. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the State concerned.
295. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
296. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Ecuador, the Russian Federation and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
297. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.22. The draft resolution was adopted by 22 votes in favour, 5 against, with 20 abstentions.
298. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/12.
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
299. At the 53rd meeting, on 22 March 2012, the representatives of Denmark and Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.29, sponsored by Denmark, on behalf of the European Union, and Japan, and co-sponsored by Albania, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Croatia, Georgia, Iceland, Israel, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Serbia, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Andorra, Costa Rica and Turkey joined the sponsors.
300. At the same meeting, the representative of Cuba made general comments in relation to the draft resolution, disassociating itself from the consensus on it.
301. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement as the State concerned.
302. At the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
303. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China and the Russian Federation made statements in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating from the consensus on the draft resolution.
304. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/13).
Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
