19/22 Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and relevant international human rights treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and that all States are bound to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
312. At the 54th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Denmark introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.38/Rev.1, sponsored by Denmark, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bahrain, Botswana, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Djibouti, Egypt, Georgia, Germany, Honduras, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and the United States of America. Subsequently, Cape Verde, the Federated States of Micronesia, Panama and Senegal joined the sponsors.
313. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation made general comments in relation to the draft resolution and introduced an oral amendment to it.
314. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of Member States of the European Union that are Members of the Council), Cuba, Qatar and Saudi Arabia made general comments in relation to the draft resolution and the proposed oral amendment.
315. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.
316. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
317. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Qatar, a recorded vote was taken on the oral amendment proposed. The amendment was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 33 against, with 9 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
China, Cuba, Ecuador, Russian Federation
Against:
Austria, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America, Uruguay
Abstaining:
Angola, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Congo, India, Indonesia, Mauritius, Thailand, Uganda
318. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Ecuador and the Russian Federation made statements in explanation of vote before the vote on the draft resolution.
319. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 41 votes in favour, 3 against, with 2 abstentions.
320. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Thailand made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
321. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/22.
Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
