19/34 The right to development
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the Charter of the United Nations and the core human rights instruments,
The right to development
238. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Egypt introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.14, sponsored by Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. Subsequently, Armenia, Brazil, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
239. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt orally revised the draft resolution.
240. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium, on behalf of Members of the European Union that are Members of the Council, and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
241. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 46 votes in favour, with 1 abstention.
242. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/34.
Promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protests
243. At the 55th meeting, on 23 March 2012, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.17, sponsored by Costa Rica, Switzerland and Turkey and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Liechtenstein, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia and Spain. Subsequently, Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Djibouti, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Maldives, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palestine, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
244. At the same meeting, the representative of Switzerland orally revised the draft resolution.
245. Also at the same meeting, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
246. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/35).
The right to development: report of the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
The right to development
