19/1 The escalating grave human rights violations and deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic
The Human Rights Council,
Having held an urgent debate to discuss the escalating grave human rights violations and the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic,
Expressing grave concern at the deterioration of the situation in the Syrian Arab Republic, in particular the ongoing human rights violations and use of violence by the Syrian authorities against its population, resulting in a humanitarian crisis,
Reaffirming its strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic and to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
The escalating grave human rights violations and deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic
52. At the 10th meeting, on 1 March 2012, the representative of Turkey introduced draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.1/Rev.1, sponsored by Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Latvia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, Georgia, Liechtenstein, Mauritius, Montenegro, Palestine and Senegal joined the sponsors.
53. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation made a general comment in relation to the draft resolution.
54. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, Ecuador and Thailand made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
55. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/19/L.1/Rev.1. The draft resolution was adopted by 37 votes in favour, 3 against, with 3 abstentions.[73]
56. At the same meeting, the representatives of Bangladesh and the Czech Republic (on behalf of members of the European Union that are members of the Council) made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
57. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 19/1.
Task force on secretariat services, accessibility for persons with disabilities and use of information technology
58. At the 51st meeting, on 21 March 2012, the President of the Human Rights Council introduced a draft decision on the task force on secretariat services, accessibility for persons with disabilities and use of information technology.
59. At the same meeting, the draft decision was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter II, decision19/119).
60. Also at the same meeting, the President of the Human Rights Council made a statement in relation to the adopted decision.
