15/20 Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, as reaffirmed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in accordance with their respective obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable human rights instruments,
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
779. At the 32nd meeting, on 30 September 2010, the representative of Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.17, sponsored by Japan and co-sponsored by Denmark, New Zealand, Norway, Serbia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Switzerland joined the sponsors.
780. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan orally revised the draft resolution.
781. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cambodia made a statement as the concerned country.
782. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
783. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/20).
15/20 Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
39. Under the terms of paragraphs 9 and 10 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.17, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to extend by one year the mandate of the special procedure on the situation of human rights in Cambodia, and request the Special Rapporteur to report on the implementation of his mandate to the Council at its eighteenth session, and to engage in a constructive manner with the Government of Cambodia for the further improvement of the situation of human rights in the country;
(b) Request the Secretary-General to report to the Council at its eighteenth session on the role and achievements of OHCHR in assisting the Government and people of Cambodia in the promotion and protection of human rights.
40. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a sum of $49,800 per annum would be required to implement activities under the terms of the draft resolution.
41. Estimated requirements of $49,800 per annum or $99,600 per biennium have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 for the activities of the Special Rapporteur. No additional appropriations would be required should the Council adopt the draft resolution.
Advisory services and technical assistance for Cambodia
