15/28 Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and the relevant human rights instruments,
Acknowledging that peace and security, development and human rights are the pillars of the United Nations system,
Reaffirming its respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and unity of Somalia,
Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
784. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.2, sponsored by Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Zambia joined the sponsors.
785. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria orally revised the draft resolution.
786. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Somalia made a statement as the concerned country.
787. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
788. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/28).
789. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Annexes
15/28 Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
85. Under the terms of paragraphs 10 and 15 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.2, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Call upon OHCHR and all stakeholders to assist Somalia to adequately prepare for the forthcoming universal periodic review in May 2011, including through the allocation of financial resources from the universal periodic review Trust Fund;
(b) Decide to extend the mandate of the independent expert for one year with a view to maximizing the provision and flow of technical assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights, in order to support the efforts of the transitional federal Government and its subnational authorities to ensure the respect of human rights and strengthen the human rights regime in its work to complete the outstanding task of the transitional mandate, and request him to report to the Council at its eighteenth session on the implementation of technical cooperation inside Somalia.
86. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that requirements of $86,200 per annum would arise in response to its terms.
87. Estimated requirements of $86,200 per annum or $172,400 per biennium have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 for the activities of the independent expert. No additional appropriations would be required should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council.
88. With regard to paragraph 10, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Decision 15/116 Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
89. Under the terms of paragraphs 1 and 3 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.20, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to convene, within existing resources, a panel discussion at its sixteenth session on the issue of human rights in the context of hostage-taking, ransom payments and impunity for terrorists involved;
(b) Request OHCHR to liaise with the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights while countering terrorism and all concerned parties and stakeholders, including relevant United Nations bodies and agencies, with a view to ensuring their participation in the panel discussion.
90. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a sum of $28,800 would be required to implement activities under its terms.
91. The requirements of $28,800 estimated to provide for the travel and daily subsistence allowance expenses of five experts to participate in the panel discussion have not been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. The additional requirements are proposed to be met from within available resources approved under section 23 of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional resources would therefore be required should the Council adopts the draft resolution.
92. With regard to paragraph 1, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Decision 15/117 Nelson Mandela International Day
93. Under the terms of paragraphs 1 and 3 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.21, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to hold a high-level panel discussion during its seventeenth session to reflect on the current human rights situations worldwide in respect of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, drawing inspiration from the exemplary example of Nelson Mandela to promote and protect human rights without distinction to race, colour or national or ethnic origin;
(b) Request OHCHR to take the necessary measures for the observance by the Council of Nelson Mandela International Day.
94. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a sum of $35,200 would be required to implement activities foreseen under the terms of the draft resolution.
95. The requirements of $35,200 estimated to provide for the travel and daily subsistence allowance for three high-level speakers from different regions to participate in the high-level panel discussion and for printing 500 copies of A Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela in English have not been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. The additional requirements are proposed to be met from within available resources approved under section 23 of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional resources would therefore be required should the Council adopt the draft resolution.
PRST/15/1 Technical assistance and strengthening of capacities in Haiti
96. Under the terms of paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.4, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to extend for one year, until September 2011, the mandate of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in Haiti, previously renewed by the Council in the President’s statement PRST/9/1;
(b) Request the independent expert to collaborate with international institutions, donors and the international community to ensure that they bring their expertise and sufficient resources to support the efforts of the Haitian authorities in the reconstruction of Haiti;
(c) Also request the independent expert to present his report to the Human Rights Council at its seventeenth session.
97. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a sum of $55,200 per annum would be required to implement activities under the terms of the draft resolution.
98. Estimated requirements of $55,200 per annum or $110,400 per biennium have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 for the activities of the independent expert. No additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
Annex III
Agenda
Item 1. Organizational and procedural matters
Item 2. Annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and reports of the Office of the High Commissioner and the Secretary-General
Item 3. Promotion and protection of all human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development
Item 4. Human rights situations that require the Council’s attention
Item 5. Human rights bodies and mechanisms
Item 6. Universal periodic review
Item 7. Human rights situation in Palestine and other occupied Arab territories
Item 8. Follow-up to and implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
Item 9. Racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance, follow-up to and implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Item 10. Technical assistance and capacity-building
Annex IV
List of documents issued for the fifteenth session of the Human Rights Council
Documents issued in the general series
Symbol
Agenda item








Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
