15/23 Elimination of discrimination against women
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Guided also by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,
Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted on 25 June 1993 by the World Conference on Human Rights,[34] the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted on 15 September 1995 by the Fourth World Conference on Women,[35] and their 2005 and 2010 reviews, the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action adopted on 8 September 2001 by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance[36] and the outcome document of the Durban Review Conference adopted on 24 April 2009,[37]
Welcoming the establishment of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, known as UN-Women,
Bearing in mind the challenges still faced by all countries throughout the world to overcome inequality between men and women,
Recalling the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly entitled “Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century”, the declaration adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its forty-ninth session and the outcome document of the Durban Review Conference,
Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolutions 2000/13 of 17 April 2000, 2001/34 of 23 April 2001 and 2003/22 of 22 April 2003, as well as Council resolution 6/30 of 14 December 2007 on integrating the human rights of women throughout the United Nations system and Council resolution 12/17 of 2 October 2009 on the elimination of discrimination against women,
Bearing in mind that international human rights treaties, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender and include guarantees to ensure the enjoyment by women and men, and girls and boys, of their civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights on a basis of equality,
Deeply concerned by the fact that women everywhere are still subject to significant disadvantage as the result of discriminatory laws and practices and that de jure and de facto equality has not been achieved in any country in the world,
Recognizing that women face multiple forms of discrimination,
Reiterating the need to intensify efforts to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women throughout the world,
Recognizing that the full and equal participation of women in all spheres of life is essential for the full and complete economic and social development of a country,
Recognizing also that the elimination of discrimination against women, in law and in practice, is primarily the responsibility of States, and that the United Nations human rights system plays an important role in contributing to these efforts,
Mindful of the fact that the elimination of discrimination against women requires the consideration of women’s specific socio-economic context, and recognizing that laws, policies, customs and traditions that restrict women’s equal access to full participation in development processes and public and political life are discriminatory and may contribute to the feminization of poverty,
Recalling its resolution 5/1 on institution-building of the Council and resolution 5/2 on the code of conduct for special procedures mandate holders of the Council, of 18 June 2007, and stressing that the mandate holder shall discharge his/her duties in accordance with those resolutions and the annexes thereto,
1. Reaffirms the obligation of States to take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women by any person, organization or enterprise;
2. Welcomes the commitments made by the international community to fully implement the Millennium Development Goals, and stresses, in that context, the resolve of Heads of State to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women as effective ways to combat poverty, hunger and disease and to stimulate development that is truly sustainable;
3. Also welcomes the efforts made by States around the world to reform their legal systems in order to remove obstacles to women’s full and effective enjoyment of their human rights;
4. Expresses concern at the fact that, despite the pledge made at the Fourth World Conference on Women and the review conducted by the General Assembly at its twenty-third special session to modify or abolish remaining laws that discriminate against women and girls, many of these laws are still in force and continue to be applied, thereby preventing women and girls from enjoying the full realization of their human rights;
5. Calls upon States to fulfil their international obligations and commitments to revoke any remaining laws that discriminate on the basis of sex and remove gender bias in the administration of justice, taking into account the fact that those laws violate the human right of women to be protected against discrimination;
6. Recognizes that women’s inequality before the law has resulted in the lack of equal opportunities for women in education, access to health, economic participation and access to labour markets and disparities in, inter alia, salaries and compensation, public and political participation, access to decision-making processes, inheritance, ownership of land, financial services, including loans, and nationality and legal capacity, as well as increased vulnerability to discrimination and violence, and that all countries face challenges in these areas;
7. Acknowledges the work undertaken by the Commission on the Status of Women, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the Special Rapporteurs of the Council on violence against women, its causes and consequences, on trafficking in persons, especially in women and children, and on contemporary forms of slavery and other relevant United Nations bodies, agencies and mechanisms to eliminate discrimination in law and in practice throughout the world;
8. Emphasizes the significant role that women play in economic development and in the eradication of poverty, and stresses the need for promoting equal pay for equal work or work of equal value and for promoting the recognition of the value of women’s unremunerated work, as well as for developing and promoting policies that facilitate the reconciliation of employment and family responsibilities;
9. Calls upon States to ensure full representation and full and equal participation of women in political, social and economic decision-making as an essential condition for gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls and a critical factor in the eradication of poverty;
10. Welcomes, in particular, the work undertaken by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women on women’s equality before the law;
11. Recognizes the important role played by the Council in addressing the issue of discrimination against women, both in law and in practice;
12. Welcomes the convening of a panel on equality before the law during the eleventh session of the Council;
13. Notes that, although human rights treaty bodies and special procedures do, to some extent, address discrimination against women within their mandates, their attention to such discrimination is not systematic;
14. Also notes the work undertaken by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the issue;
15. Takes note of the thematic study on discrimination against women, in law and in practice, and on how the issue is addressed throughout the United Nations human rights system, prepared by the Office of the High Commissioner;[38]
16. Welcomes the half-day panel discussion on discrimination against women in law and in practice;
17. Calls upon States to pay particular attention to discrimination against women in situations of vulnerability, such as women living in poverty, migrant women, women with disabilities and women belonging to minorities;
18. Decides to establish, for a period of three years, a working group of five independent experts, of balanced geographical representation, on the issue of discrimination against women in law and in practice, whose tasks will be:
(a) To develop a dialogue with States, the relevant United Nations entities, national human rights institutions, experts on different legal systems, and civil society organizations to identify, promote and exchange views on best practices related to the elimination of laws that discriminate against women or are discriminatory to women in terms of implementation or impact and, in that regard, to prepare a compendium of best practices;
(b) To undertake a study, in cooperation with and reflecting the views of States and relevant United Nations entities, national human rights institutions and civil society organizations, on the ways and means in which the working group can cooperate with States to fulfil their commitments to eliminate discrimination against women in law and in practice;
(c) To make recommendations on the improvement of legislation and the implementation of the law, to contribute to the realization of the Millennium Development Goals, in particular goal 3 on the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women;
(d) To work in close coordination, in the context of the fulfilment of its mandate, with other special procedures and subsidiary organs of the Council, relevant United Nations entities, including the Commission on the Status of Women and UN-Women and, in particular, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and other treaty bodies, within their respective mandates, with a view to avoiding unnecessary duplication;
(e) To take into account the views of other stakeholders, including relevant regional human rights mechanisms, national human rights institutions and civil society organizations;
(f) To submit an annual report to the Council, starting at its twentieth session, on the issue of discrimination against women in law and in practice, and on good practices in eliminating such discrimination, drawing upon the findings of the United Nations human rights machinery and the broader United Nations system;
19. Calls upon all States to cooperate with and assist the working group in its task, to supply all necessary available information requested by it and to give serious consideration to responding favourably to the requests of the working group to visit their countries, to enable it to fulfil its mandate effectively;
20. Invites relevant United Nations agencies, funds and programmes, treaty bodies and civil society actors, including non-governmental organizations, as well as the private sector, to cooperate fully with the working group in the fulfilment of its mandate;
21. Requests the working group to make its reports available to the General Assembly, the Commission on the Status of Women, UN-Women and other relevant United Nations entities;
22. Also requests the working group to contribute to the provision of technical assistance or advisory services by the Office of the High Commissioner to better promote the elimination of discrimination against women;
23. Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide all the necessary human resources and financial assistance to the working group for the effective fulfilment of its mandate;
24. Decides to continue consideration of this question in conformity with the annual programme of work of the Council.
Elimination of discrimination against women
192. At the 33rd meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representatives of Colombia (also on behalf of Mexico) and Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15, sponsored by Colombia and Mexico and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Germany, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mauritania, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, Spain, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Benin, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Finland, Iceland, India, Maldives, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, Thailand, the United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Zambia joined the sponsors.
193. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the draft resolution.
194. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia moved to amend the first paragraph of the draft resolution as orally revised.
195. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico opposed the motion for the proposed amendment.
196. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Bahrain, China, Djibouti, Jordan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Mexico, Nigeria (on behalf of States members of the Group of African States), Norway, Pakistan, Qatar, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally amended and on the proposed amendment.
197. At the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and Mexico made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
198. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Mexico, a recorded vote was taken on the proposed amendment to the draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15 as orally revised. The motion for amendment was rejected by 22 votes against and 18 in favour, with 4 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, China, Djibouti, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Uganda
Against:
Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, France, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Zambia
Abstaining:
Cameroon, Gabon, Ghana, Senegal
199. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
200. At the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15 as orally revised.
201. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/23).
202. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representatives of Japan and Saudi Arabia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
203. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria and Egypt made comments in relation to the resolution.
Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
204. At the 33rd meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft decision A/HRC/15/L.20, sponsored by Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) and co-sponsored by Cuba and Yemen. Subsequently, Turkey and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
205. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria orally revised the draft decision.
206. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft decision as orally revised (see annex II).
207. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote on the draft decision as orally revised.
208. At the same meeting, the draft decision, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. II, decision 15/116).
15/23 Elimination of discrimination against women
58. Under the terms of paragraph 18 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15, the Human Rights Council would decide to establish, for a period of three years, a working group of experts, of balanced geographical representation, on the issue of discrimination against women in law and practice, whose tasks will be:
(a) To develop a dialogue with States, the relevant United Nations entities, national human rights institutions, experts on different legal systems and civil society organizations, to identify, promote and exchange views on best practices related to the elimination of laws that discriminate against women or have a disproportionately negative effect on women or are discriminatory to women in terms of implementation or impact and, in that regard, to prepare a compendium of best practices;
(b) To undertake a study, in cooperation with and reflecting the views of States and relevant United Nations entities, national human rights institutions and civil society organizations on the ways and means in which the mandate holder can cooperate with States to fulfil their commitments to eliminate discrimination against women in law and in practice;
(c) To make recommendations on improvement of legislation and implementation of law and to contribute to the realization of the Millennium Development Goals, in particular goal 3 on the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women;
(d) To work in close coordination, in the context of the fulfilment of its mandate, with other special procedures and subsidiary organs of the Council, relevant United Nations entities, including the Commission on the Status of Women and UN-Women, and in particular the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and other treaty bodies, within their respective mandates, with a view to avoiding unnecessary duplication;
(e) To take into account the views of other stakeholders, including relevant regional human rights mechanisms, national human rights institutions and civil society organizations;
(f) To submit an annual report to the Council, starting at its twentieth session, on the issue of discrimination against women in law and practice, and on good practices in eliminating such laws, drawing upon the findings of the United Nations human rights machinery and the broader United Nations system.
59. Under the terms of paragraph 22 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15, the Human Rights Council would request the working group to contribute to the provision of technical assistance or advisory services by OHCHR to better promote the elimination of discrimination against women.
60. Under the terms of paragraph 23 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.15, the Human Rights Council would request the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide all the necessary human and financial assistance to the working group for the effective fulfilment of its mandate.
61. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a total amount of $1,621,400 would be required to implement activities in response to the terms of the draft resolution, as follows:
(a) An estimated amount of $592,500 required under section 2 (General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management) would provide for conference services;
(b) Under section 23 (Human Rights), an estimated amount of $1,021,100 would provide for (i) travel and daily subsistence allowance of members of the working group; two field missions each year, three sessions per year (one in New York and two in Geneva), travel to Geneva to attend the annual consultation meeting of special procedures mandate holders; and to submit a yearly report to the Human Rights Council; to New York, for consultation with the Commission on the Status of Women and UN-Women; (ii) travel and daily subsistence allowance of OHCHR staff to accompany the working group during field missions, and for coordination outside Geneva; (iii) consultant services (nine months at P-3 level each year) to support the working group with highly specialized expertise; (iv) three staff members at P-4, P-3 and P-2 levels (12 months per annum), one staff member at the G-5 level (12 months per annum); and (v) general operating expenses for interpretation services, communications, other miscellaneous expenses and supplies during field missions;
(c) Under section 28 E (Administration, Geneva), an estimated amount of $7,800 would provide for conference servicing support services.
The estimated requirements are summarized as follows:


United States dollars
Section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management
592 500
Section 23, Human Rights
1 021 100
Section 28 E, Administration, Geneva
7 800
Total
1 621 400
62. The requirements have not been included under sections 2, 23 and 28 E of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011.
63. Currently, the Secretary-General has been requested to implement various decisions and resolutions of the Human Rights Council, including those of the fifteenth session of the Council, and in response to various mandates of the General Assembly relating to human rights issues, which have financial implications on the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 estimated at $9,527,800, of which the Secretary-General is proposing to absorb an amount estimated at $3,662,700.
64. The Council is also informed that there are other mandates that are likely to command additional requirements in the programme budget in the bienniums 2010–2011 or 2012–2013, as follows: (a) the entry into force of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance; (b) the decision of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to request the General Assembly to authorize the Committee to meet for an additional week per session (two additional weeks of sessional meetings per year) in 2012 and 2013; and (c) the decision of the Committee against Torture to request the Assembly to authorize the Committee to meet for an additional week per session in 2011 and 2012.
65. With regard to the biennium 2012–2013, in his report (A/65/333), the Secretary-General also stated that an additional amount of $283,100 will be required in the biennium 2012–2013 relating to Human Rights Council resolution 14/8. It is also estimated that the programme budget implications of the draft resolutions tabled at the fifteenth session of the Council will command new resources in the biennium 2012–2013 of about $4,963,300.
66. Against this background of the various mandates and its related additional resource requirements in the biennium 2010–2011, the Council is hereby informed that, since at this juncture the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 has been tasked with absorption of significant amounts of requirements for additional resources, it is proposed that General Assembly approval be sought for all additional resources arising from the Council’s mandates that cannot be met from within available resources. Although the Secretariat will endeavour to identify areas from which resources can be redeployed to meet the additional requirements, the Secretariat, after having exhausted all possibilities of absorption, may need to seek additional resources under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011, through established procedures.
67. Since the mandate is for a three-year period, provisions of $3,242,800 would be required for the biennium 2012–2013. The requirements for 2012–2013 would be considered in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012–2013.
68. The Council will recall that the General Assembly, in part V of its resolution 63/263, endorsed the conclusions and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, that there is merit in presenting an annual report on the revised estimates arising from resolutions and decisions adopted by the Human Rights Council (A/63/541). As such, the programme budget implications of the decisions and resolutions of the current session will only be presented to the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. Given that some of the draft resolutions of the current session require immediate action and that their implementation requires additional resources, including those for conference services, which are not included in the calendar of conferences for the biennium 2010–2011, the Secretary-General could issue an addendum to his report (A/65/333) only upon the timely submission of the Council’s report on the decisions and resolutions adopted at its fifteenth session to the General Assembly during the main part of its sixty-fifth session.
69. With regard to paragraph 23, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Elimination of discrimination against women
