15/10 Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling Council resolutions 8/13 of 18 June 2008 and 12/7 of 1 October 2009, in which the Council requested the Human Rights Council Advisory Committee to formulate and finalize a draft set of principles and guidelines for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members,
Welcoming the submission of views of relevant actors on the draft set of principles and guidelines in accordance with Council resolution 12/7,
Expressing its appreciation to the Advisory Committee for finalizing the draft set of principles and guidelines for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members,
Noting that the Principles and Guidelines are to be interpreted in a manner consistent with States’ obligations under international human rights law, including relevant Conventions,
1. Takes note with appreciation of the Principles and Guidelines for the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members submitted to the Council by the Advisory Committee;[23]
2. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to disseminate the Principles and Guidelines as appropriate;
3. Encourages Governments, relevant United Nations bodies, specialized agencies, funds and programmes, other intergovernmental organizations and national human rights institutions to give due consideration to the Principles and Guidelines in the formulation and implementation of their policies and measures concerning persons affected by leprosy and their family members;
4. Encourages all relevant actors in society, including hospitals, schools, universities, religious groups and organizations, business enterprises, newspapers, broadcasting networks and other non-governmental organizations, to give due consideration, as appropriate, to the Principles and Guidelines, in the course of their activities;
5. Invites the General Assembly to consider, as appropriate, the issue of the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, including possible ways to promote further the Principles and Guidelines.
Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members
137. At the 31st meeting, on 30 September 2010, the representative of Japan (also on behalf of the co-sponsors) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.18, sponsored by Japan and co-sponsored by Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Viet Nam and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Indonesia, Ireland, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nicaragua, the Philippines, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
138. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan orally revised the draft resolution.
139. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/10).
Elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members
