15/1 Follow-up to the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the incident of the humanitarian flotilla
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from the Charter and the other instruments and rules of international law is among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations,
Taking into consideration the relevant provisions of international humanitarian and human rights law,
Emphasizing the importance of the safety and well-being of all civilians, including humanitarian personnel,
Recalling its resolution 14/1 of 2 June 2010, in which the Council decided to dispatch an independent international fact-finding mission to investigate violations of human rights law and international humanitarian law resulting from the Israeli attacks on the flotilla of ships carrying humanitarian assistance,
1. Welcomes the report of the independent international fact-finding mission;[1]
2. Deeply regrets the non-cooperation by the occupying Power, Israel, with the mission;
3. Endorses the conclusions contained in the report of the mission, and calls upon all concerned parties to ensure their immediate implementation;
4. Recommends that the General Assembly consider the report of the mission;
5. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to submit a report on the status of the implementation of paragraph 3 above to the Council at its sixteenth session;
6. Decides to follow up the implementation of the present resolution at its sixteenth session.
30th meeting
Follow-up to the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the incident of the humanitarian flotilla
45. At the 30th meeting, on 29 September 2010, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.33, sponsored by Pakistan on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Subsequently, Bolivia (Plurinational State of) and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
46. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
47. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Palestine and Turkey made statements as concerned parties.
48. At the same meeting, the representative of Belgium, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the representative of the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
49. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.33 as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 30 votes in favour, 1 against, with 15 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Guatemala, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay
Against:
United States of America
Abstaining:
Belgium, Cameroon, France, Hungary, Japan, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zambia
50. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 15/1.
51. At the same meeting, the representatives of Norway, Switzerland and Uruguay made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
President’s statement
52. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the President of the Council made a statement in relation to the dialogue between the OHCHR and the Council (for the text of the statement, see part one, chap. III, PRST/15/2).
53. At the same meeting, the President also informed the States Members of the Council, observer States and other observers that draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.30 had been withdrawn by its co-sponsors.
54. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of the European Union), Cuba, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States) and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft text.
55. At the same meeting, the representative of Algeria also made comments in relation to the text.
