15/6 Follow-up to the report of the Committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law established pursuant to Council resolution 13/9
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Recalling its relevant resolutions, including resolutions S-9/1 of 12 January 2009, S-12/1 of 16 October 2009 and 13/9 of 25 March 2010, adopted in follow-up to the human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,[10]
Recalling also relevant General Assembly resolutions, including resolutions 64/10 of 5 November 2009 and 64/254 of 26 February 2010, adopted in follow-up to the report of the Fact-Finding Mission,
Recalling further relevant rules and principles of international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law, in particular the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, applicable to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
Reaffirming the obligation of all parties to respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law,
Reiterating the importance of the safety and well-being of all civilians, and reaffirming the obligation of the international community to ensure the protection of civilians in armed conflicts,
Stressing the need to ensure accountability for all violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law in order to prevent impunity, ensure justice, deter further violations and promote peace,
1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,[11] and requests the Secretary-General to follow up on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict,10 in accordance with Human Rights Council resolution S-12/1;
2. Also takes note of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,[12] and requests the High Commissioner to follow up on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the Fact-Finding Mission, in accordance with Human Rights Council resolution S-12/1;
3. Welcomes the report of the Committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law to monitor and assess any domestic, legal or other proceedings undertaken by both the Government of Israel and the Palestinian side, including the independence, effectiveness and genuineness of these investigations and their conformity with international standards;[13]
4. Warmly welcomes the cooperation of the Palestinian National Authority with the Committee of independent experts, and the report submitted to the Secretary-General on the investigations carried out by the Palestinian Independent Investigation Commission established pursuant to the Goldstone report;[14]

5. Urges the Palestinian Independent Investigation Commission to complete its investigations in order to cover the allegations relating to the occupied Gaza Strip, as contained in the report of the Fact-Finding Mission;

6. Condemns the non-cooperation by Israel, the occupying Power, which hampered the assessment by the Committee of independent experts of Israel’s response to the call by the General Assembly and the Council to conduct investigations that are independent, credible and in conformity with international standards;

7. Urges Israel, the occupying Power, in compliance with its duties to complete investigations in conformity with international standards of independence, thoroughness, effectiveness and promptness into the serious violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law reported by the Fact-Finding Mission;

8. Decides to renew and resume the mandate of the Committee of independent experts, established pursuant to Council resolution 13/9, and requests the Committee to submit its report to the Council at its sixteenth session, and requests the High Commissioner to continue to provide the members of the Committee with all administrative, technical and logistic assistance required to enable them to fulfil their mandate promptly and efficiently;

9. Requests the High Commissioner to present a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the Council at its sixteenth session;

10. Decides to remain seized of this matter.

Follow-up to the report of the Committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law established pursuant to Council resolution 13/9
735. At the 30th meeting, on 29 September 2010, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Group of Arab States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/14/L.34, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and co-sponsored by Palestine and the Syrian Arab Republic, on behalf of the Group of Arab States. Subsequently, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
736. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution.
737. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Palestine made a statement as a concerned party.
738. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
739. At the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
740. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.34 as orally revised. The draft resolution as orally revised was adopted by 27 votes in favour, 1 against, with 19 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay
Against:
United States of America
Abstaining:
Belgium, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, France, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea. Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zambia
741. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 15/6.
742. At the same meeting, the representatives of Switzerland, Uruguay and Zambia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
