15/24 Human rights and unilateral coercive measures
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
Recalling also all previous resolutions on human rights and unilateral coercive measures adopted by the Commission on Human Rights, the Council and the General Assembly,
Human rights and unilateral coercive measures
209. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representative of Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.11, sponsored by Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
210. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
211. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
212. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.11. The draft resolution was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 14 against, with no abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda and Zambia
Against:
Belgium, France, Hungary, Japan, Norway, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
213. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 15/24.
15/24 Human rights and unilateral coercive measures
70. Under the terms of paragraph 15 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.11, the Human Rights Council would request OHCHR to prepare a thematic study on the impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights, including recommendations on actions aimed at ending such measures, taking into account all previous reports, resolutions and relevant information available to the United Nations system in this regard, and to present this study to the Council at its eighteenth session.
71. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that consultancy requirements of $28,000 would arise to implement the activity, called for under paragraph 15.
72. The requirements of $28,000 have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 for the activity. Additional appropriations will not be required should the draft resolution be adopted by the Council.
Human rights and unilateral coercive measures: report of the Secretary-General
Human rights and unilateral coercive measures
