15/14 Human rights and indigenous peoples: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
The Human Rights Council,
Human rights and indigenous peoples: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
153. At the 31st meeting, on 30 September 2010, the representative of Mexico (also on behalf of Guatemala) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.6, sponsored by Mexico and co-sponsored by Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, Guatemala, Honduras, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Sweden and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Andorra, Chile, Cuba, France, Greece, Iceland, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Poland, the Russian Federation, Spain and Uruguay joined the sponsors.
154. At the same meeting, the representative of Mexico orally revised the draft resolution.
155. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution as orally revised (see annex II).
156. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
157. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/14).
15/14 Human rights and indigenous peoples: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
17. Under the terms of paragraph 1 and subparagraphs 1 (e) and 1 (j) of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.6, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples for a period of three years;
(b) Request the Special Rapporteur to work in close cooperation with the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues and to participate in its annual session;
(c) Request the Special Rapporteur to submit a report on the implementation of his mandate to the Council in accordance with its annual programme of work.
18. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that provisions of $59,800 per year would be required to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution. The requirements have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011, however experience has shown they are at a minimal level.
19. While no additional appropriations would be sought from the General Assembly, the Secretariat will to the extent possible in implementing the terms of the draft resolution meet additional requirements that would arise such as (a) staff to support the mandate holder in undertaking his/her studies and during field visits; and (b) additional travel for the mandate holder and/or experts for formal consultations with partners and stakeholders, including appropriate conference services for those meetings, within resources available under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011.
20. Since the period of extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur extends into the biennium 2012–2013, in drawing up the estimates for the proposed programme for the biennium 2012–2013 a thorough review of the expenditure pattern of the activities of the Special Rapporteur will be carried out and addressed in that context.
15/15 Protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism
21. Under the terms of paragraphs 2, 2 (f) and 5 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.7, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, for a period of three years;
(b) Request the Special Rapporteur to develop a regular dialogue and discuss potential areas of cooperation with Governments and all relevant actors, including specialized agencies and programmes with, inter alia, the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council, including its Executive Directorate, the Counter-Terrorism Task Force, OHCHR, the Terrorism Prevention Branch of the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime and treaty bodies, as well as non-governmental organizations and other regional and subregional institutions, and to report regularly to the Human Rights Council and to the General Assembly;
(c) Request the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner to provide all the necessary human, technical and financial assistance to the Special Rapporteur for the effective fulfilment of his/her mandate.
22. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution, it is estimated that provisions of $74,000 per annum or $148,000 would be required including (a) $17,000 per annum or $34,000 per biennium under section 2 (General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management); (b) $55,300 per annum or $110,600 per biennium under section 23 (Human Rights); and (c) $1,700 per annum or $3,400 per biennium under section 28 E (Administration, Geneva). The requirements under all these sections have been included in the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011, however experience has shown they are at a minimal level.
23. While no additional appropriations would be sought from the General Assembly, the Secretariat will to the extent possible in implementing the terms of the draft resolution meet additional requirements that would arise, such as (a) staff to support the Special Rapporteur in undertaking his/her studies and during field visits; and (b) additional travel for the Special Rapporteur and/or experts for formal consultations with partners and stakeholders, including appropriate conference services for those meetings, within resources available under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011.
24. Since the period of extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur extends into the biennium 2012–2013, in drawing up the estimates for the proposed programme for the biennium 2012–2013 a thorough review of the expenditure pattern of the activities of the Special Rapporteur will be carried out and addressed in that context.
25. With regard to paragraph 5, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Human rights and indigenous peoples: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples
