15/27 Situation of human rights in the Sudan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant instruments,
Reaffirming the obligation of States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Emphasizing that States have the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of all human rights, including the prevention of human rights violations,
Recognizing the developments taking place in the Sudan, and the efforts of the Government of the Sudan in the promotion and protection of human rights,
Reaffirming Commission on Human Rights resolution 2005/82 of 21 April 2005 and Council resolutions 6/34 and 6/35 of 14 December 2007, 7/16 of 27 March 2008, 9/17 of 24 September 2008 and 11/10 of 18 June 2009, as well as Council decision 14/117 of 10 June 2010, and calling upon the Government of the Sudan to continue to intensify its efforts to implement them,
1. Takes note of the report of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan and the addenda thereto, submitted to the Council at its fifteenth session;[43]
2. Expresses its appreciation to the independent expert for his work and the recommendations he has made relating to the improvement of the situation of human rights in the Sudan;
3. Commends the cooperation extended by the Government of the Sudan to the independent expert and to the United Nations and African Union missions in the Sudan in the field of human rights and international humanitarian law, and urges the Government to continue its cooperation;
4. Urges all parties to continue their efforts to implement the remaining obligations stipulated in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, encourages all parties to continue their ongoing efforts to achieve peace in Darfur, and urges non-participating parties to join the negotiations;
5. Congratulates the Government and the people of the Sudan for organizing and for widely participating in the April 2010 elections, which, despite logistical and organizational gaps, took place in a peaceful and orderly manner;
6. Welcomes the continued work of the Advisory Council for Human Rights in the Sudan and the establishment of the Southern Sudan Human Rights Commission, and calls for the nomination of the members of the National Human Rights Commission, as stipulated in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement;
7. Welcomes also the passing of the Southern Sudan Referendum Bill and the establishment of the Southern Sudan Referendum Commission, and calls upon all parties to the Comprehensive Peace Agreement to take urgent action to resolve key remaining post-referendum issues and facilitate peaceful, fair, timely and transparent referendums that reflect the will of the Southern Sudanese people, and to respect their results;
8. Calls upon the international community to continue to provide support and technical assistance to the Government of the Sudan and the Government of Southern Sudan in accordance with assessed needs;
9. Recognizes the work of the African Union and existing mechanisms, and calls for greater coordination and the elimination of duplication;
10. Decides to renew for a period of one year the mandate of the independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan, who shall assume the mandate and responsibilities set out by the Council in its resolutions 6/34, 6/35, 7/16, 9/17 and 11/10, requests the independent expert to engage with the newly created human rights forums in the Sudan as well as the human rights sections of the African Union, the United Nations Mission in the Sudan and the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur and to submit a report to the Council for consideration at its eighteenth session, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the independent expert with all the assistance necessary to discharge the mandate fully.
Situation of human rights in the Sudan
237. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3, sponsored by Nigeria, on behalf of the Group of African States.
238. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America (also on behalf of Japan and Norway) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.35, amending draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3, and sponsored by the United States of America and co-sponsored by Japan, Norway and Switzerland. Subsequently, Iceland, Ireland and Israel joined the sponsors.
239. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, Jordan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Norway, Pakistan (also on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and Uganda made general comments in relation to draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3 and on the proposed amendment as contained in draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.35.
240. At the same meeting, the representative of the Sudan made a statement as the concerned country.
241. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.35 (see annex II).
242. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Brazil and Nigeria made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
243. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Nigeria, a recorded vote was taken on the proposed amendment to draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3, as contained in draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.35. Draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.35 was adopted by 25 votes in favour, 19 against, with 3 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, France, Gabon, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Zambia
Against:
Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ghana, Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal
Abstaining:
Kyrgyzstan, Mauritius, Thailand
244. At the same meeting, the representatives of Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), China, Cuba and Nigeria (on behalf of the States members of the Group of African States) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3 as amended.
245. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of States members of the Group of African States, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3 as amended. Draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.3 as amended was adopted by 25 votes in favour, 18 against, with 3 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, France, Gabon, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Zambia
Against:
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ghana, Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal
Abstaining:
Kyrgyzstan, Mauritius, Thailand
246. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 15/27.
247. At the 34th meeting, on 1 October 2010, the representatives of Maldives and Thailand made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.
248. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Sudan made comments in relation to the resolution as amended.
