15/2 Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery
The Human Rights Council,
Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that no one shall be held in slavery or servitude and that slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms,
Recognizing the Slavery Convention of 1926, the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery of 1956 and the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29), of the International Labour Organization, as well as other relevant international instruments which prohibit all forms of slavery and call upon Governments to eradicate such practices,
Recalling that the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action strongly condemned the fact that slavery and slavery-like practices still exist today in parts of the world and urged States to take immediate measures as a matter of priority to end such practices, which constitute flagrant violations of human rights,
Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences
67. At the 4th meeting, on 14 September 2010, the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences, Gulnara Shaninian, presented her report (A/HRC/15/20 and Add.1-4).
68. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Ecuador and Mauritania made statements as concerned countries.
69. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, on the same day, and at the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Chile, China, Cuba, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Poland, Republic of Moldova, Saudi Arabia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Morocco, Nepal, Philippines;
(c) Observer for the United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: International Labour Organization;
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observers for the following non-governmental organizations: Association of World Citizens, Defence for Children International, Global Alliance against Traffic in Women, International Federation Terre Des Hommes.
70. At the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made her concluding remarks.
Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the right of peoples to self-determination
71. At the 4th meeting, on 14 September 2010, the Chairperson of the Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the right of peoples to self-determination, Amada Benavides de Pérez, presented the Working Group’s report (A/HRC/15/25 and Add.1-6).
72. At the same meeting, the representatives of Afghanistan and the United States of America made statements as concerned countries.
73. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, on the same day, and at the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the following made statements and asked the Chairperson of the Working Group questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic[46] (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, Sudan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observer for a national human rights institution: Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission;
(e) Observers for the following non-governmental organizations: Association of World Citizens, Human Rights Advocates Inc.
74. At the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the Chairperson of the Working Group answered questions and made her concluding remarks.
Independent expert on human rights and international solidarity
75. At the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the independent expert on human rights and international solidarity, Rudi Muhammad Rizki, presented his report (A/HRC/15/32).
76. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, and at the 6th meeting on the same day, the following made statements and asked the independent expert questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Senegal, Syrian Arab Republic46 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), United States of America;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Morocco;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Associazione Comunità Papa Giovanni XXIII (also on behalf of Dominicans for Justice and Peace (Order of Preachers), Caritas Internationalis (International Confederation of Catholic Charities) and New Humanity), Federation of Associations for the Defence and the Promotion of Human Rights, Nord-Sud XXI.
77. At the 6th meeting, on the same day, the independent expert answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
Special Rapporteur on the adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights
78. At the 5th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the Special Rapporteur on the adverse effects of the movement and dumping of toxic and dangerous products and wastes on the enjoyment of human rights, Calin Georgescu, presented the report of his predecessor (A/HRC/15/22 and Add.1-3).
79. At the same meeting, the representatives of India and Kyrgyzstan made statements as concerned countries.
80. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, and at the 6th meeting on the same day, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Djibouti, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Syrian Arab Republic46 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), United States of America, Uruguay;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Morocco, Peru;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Human Rights Advocates Inc., Indian Council of South America, Permanent Assembly for Human Rights, Planetary Association for Clean Energy.
81. At the 6th meeting, on the same day, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
82. At the same meeting, on the same day, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of Paraguay.
Independent expert on the issue of human rights obligations related to access to safe drinking water and sanitation
83. At the 6th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the independent expert on the issue of human rights obligations related to access to safe drinking water and sanitation, Catarina de Albuquerque, presented her report (A/HRC/15/31 and Add.1-3), as well as the report prepared jointly with the independent expert on the question of human rights and extreme poverty (A/HRC/15/55).
84. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt made a statement as the concerned country.
85. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, and at the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, the following made statements and asked the independent expert questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Brazil, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Hungary, Japan, Maldives, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Norway, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Republic of Moldova, Senegal, Spain, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic46 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States), Thailand, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Austria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Canada, Colombia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Germany, Iceland, Indonesia, Morocco, Peru, Portugal, Slovenia, South Africa, Viet Nam;
(c) Observers for the Holy See and the Sovereign Military Order of Malta;
(d) Observer for the United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: UNICEF;
(e) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(f) Observers for the following non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, European Disability Forum, France Libertés: Fondation Danielle Mitterrand (also on behalf of the American Association of Jurists, International Educational Development, Inc. and Mouvement contre le racisme et pour l’amitié entre les peuples).
86. At the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, the independent expert answered questions and made her concluding remarks.
Independent expert on the question of human rights and extreme poverty
87. At the 6th meeting, on 15 September 2010, the independent expert on the question of human rights and extreme poverty, Maria Magdalena Sepúlveda Carmona, presented her report (A/HRC/15/41).
88. At the same meeting, the representative of Bangladesh made a statement as the concerned country.
89. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, and at the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, the following made statements and asked the independent expert questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France, Hungary, Nigeria (on behalf of the Group of African States), Norway, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference), Republic of Moldova, Switzerland, Thailand;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Algeria, Colombia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Morocco, Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, South Africa, Viet Nam;
(c) Observer for the Sovereign Military Order of Malta;
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observers for the following non-governmental organizations: Action internationale pour la paix et le développement dans la région des Grands Lacs, Amnesty International, CIVICUS – World Alliance for Citizen Participation, International Movement ATD Fourth World (also on behalf of Actionaid/Action Aid, Association Points-Cœur, Associazione Comunità Papa Giovanni XXIII, the Baha’i International Community, Caritas Internationalis (International Confederation of Catholic Charities), the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions, Dominicans for Justice and Peace (Order of Preachers), Franciscans International, the International Catholic Child Bureau, the International Commission of Jurists, the International Council of Women and the World Organization against Torture).
90. At the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, the independent expert answered questions and made her concluding remarks.
Open-ended Working Group on an optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child
91. At the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, the Chairperson of the open-ended Working Group on an optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Drahoslav Štefánek, provided the Council with an update on the progress made in the drafting of the optional protocol.
Working Group on the Right to Development
92. At the 7th meeting, on 16 September 2010, Craig Mokhiber of OHCHR read out the statement of Arjun Sengupta, the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Working Group on the right to development, on the Working Group’s report (A/HRC/15/23).
93. At the 8th and 9th meetings on the same day, the Council held a general debate on the report of the working group on the right to development (see chap. III, sect. D).
Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous people
94. At the 13th meeting, on 20 September 2010, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous people, James Anaya, presented his report (A/HRC/15/37 and Add.1-9).
95. At the same meeting, the representatives of Australia, Botswana, Colombia, Ecuador and the Russian Federation made statements as concerned countries.
96. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 14th meeting, on 21 September 2010, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Council: Brazil, Chile, China, Guatemala, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Russian Federation, United States of America;
(b) Representatives of the following observer States: Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Denmark, Nepal, New Zealand, Zimbabwe;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observer for non-governmental organizations: Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development, Colombian Commission of Jurists, Foundation for Aboriginal and Islander Research Action, Indian Council of South America, International Indian Treaty Council.
97. At the 14th meeting, on 21 September 2010, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
98. At the 15th meeting, on the same day, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by Panama.
Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery
112. At the 30th meeting, on 29 September 2010, the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.9, sponsored by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and co-sponsored by Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Uruguay. Subsequently, Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ghana, Iceland, Israel, Mauritius, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Somalia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
113. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
114. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
115. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 15/2).
15/2 Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery
1. In paragraphs 3, 10 and 11 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.9, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to renew, for a three-year period, the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and its consequences;
(b) Request the Special Rapporteur to submit annual reports on the activities of the mandate to the Human Rights Council, together with recommendations on measures that should be taken to combat and eradicate contemporary forms of slavery and slavery-like practices and to protect the human rights of victims of such practices;
(c) Request the Secretary-General to give the Special Rapporteur all human and financial assistance, from within existing resources, for the effective fulfilment of his/her mandate.
2. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that provisions of $56,600 per year would be required to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution. The requirements have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011, however experience has shown they are at a minimal level.
3. While no additional appropriations would be sought from the General Assembly, the Secretariat will to the extent possible in implementing the terms of the draft resolution meet additional requirements that would arise, such as (a) staff to support the Special Rapporteur in undertaking his/her studies and during field visits; and (b) additional travel for the Special Rapporteur and/or experts for formal consultations with partners and stakeholders, including appropriate conference services for those meetings, within resources available under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011.
4. Since the period of extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur extends into the biennium 2012–2013, in drawing up the estimates for the proposed programme for the biennium 2012–2013 a thorough review of the expenditure pattern of the activities of the Special Rapporteur will be carried out and addressed in that context.
5. With regard to paragraph 11, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
15/6 Follow-up to the report of the committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law established pursuant to Council resolution 13/9
6. Under the terms of paragraphs 8 and 9 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.34, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to renew and resume the mandate of the committee of independent experts in international humanitarian and human rights law established pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 13/9, and would request this committee to present its report to the Council at its sixteenth session; it would also request the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue providing its members with all administrative, technical and logistic assistance required to enable them to fulfil their mandate promptly and efficiently;
(b) Request the High Commissioner to present a report on the implementation of the resolution to the Council at its sixteenth session.
7. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a total amount of $618,200 would be required to implement the activities called for in the draft resolution, as follows:
(a) An estimated amount of $432,800 required under section 2 (General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management) would provide for processing pre- and post-session documentation of the Committee and providing interpretation services during a 10-day mission by the high-level expert to the region;
(b) Under section 23 (Human Rights) an estimated amount of $185,400 would provide for: (i) travel and daily subsistence allowance of three high-level experts twice to Geneva for five days, and one 10-day mission to the region; (ii) travel and daily subsistence allowance for three staff members of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) (one P-4 and one P-3, and one administrative assistant) and a Security Officer for 10 days to the region; (iii) protection if required for the region: armoured vehicles, equipment and close protection while on mission; (iv) replacement for two months of OHCHR staff members assisting the experts (salaries of two staff members at the P-4 and P-3 levels); and (v) general operating expenses, including communications and other related expenses, videoconferencing, rental of vehicles and premises. The requirements are summarized below.


United States dollars
Section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management
432 800
Section 23, Human Rights
185 400
Total
618 200
8. The requirements have not been included under sections 2 and 23 of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. The Secretariat will, to the extent possible, in implementing the terms of the draft resolution meet additional requirements, within resources available under the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. The expenditure performance will be reported to the General Assembly in the second performance report for the biennium 2010–2011 and, if need be, additional requirements would be sought at that time.
Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery
