15/12 The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination
The Human Rights Council,
The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination
143. At the 31st meeting, on 30 September 2010, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.31, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Nicaragua joined the sponsors.
144. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
145. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina, Belgium (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
146. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Belgium, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.31. The draft resolution was adopted by 31 votes in favour, 13 against, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay, Zambia
Against:
Belgium, France, Hungary, Japan, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Maldives, Switzerland
147. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 15/12.
15/12 The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination
13. Under the terms of paragraphs 11, 18 and 19 of draft resolution A/HRC/15/L.31, the Human Rights Council would:
(a) Decide to renew, for a period of three years, the mandate of the Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination, to continue to undertake the tasks contained in resolution 7/21 of 28 March 2008, as well as in all other relevant resolutions on the subject;
(b) Request the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide the Working Group with all the necessary assistance and support for the fulfilment of its mandate, both professional and financial, including through the promotion of cooperation between the Working Group and other components of the United Nations system that deal with countering mercenary-related activities, in order to meet the demands of its current and future activities;
(c) Request the Working Group to consult States, intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental organizations and other relevant actors of civil society in the implementation of the resolution and to report its findings on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session, and to the Council at its eighteenth session.
14. Should the draft resolution be adopted by the Human Rights Council, it is estimated that a total sum of $327,600 per annum or $655,200 per biennium would be required to implement the ongoing activities called for under its terms, as follows:


United States dollars
Section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference Management
106 800
Section 23, Human Rights
217 000
Section 28 E, Administration, Geneva
3 800
Total
327 600
15. The estimated requirements enumerated under paragraph 3 above have been included under sections 2, 23, and 28 E of the programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011 for the activities of the Working Group. No additional appropriations are therefore required to implement activities falling under the terms of paragraphs 11, 18 and 19 of the draft resolution.
16. With regard to paragraph 18, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990 and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 64/243 of 24 December 2009, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
The use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination
