21/5Contribution of the United Nations system as a whole to the advancement of the business and human rights agenda and the dissemination and implementation of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
The Human Rights Council,
Contribution of the United Nations system as a whole to the advancement of the business and human rights agenda and the dissemination and implementation of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights

119. At the 36th meeting, on 27 September 2012, the representative of Norway introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.14/Rev.1, sponsored by Argentina, Ghana, Norway and the Russian Federation and co-sponsored by Andorra, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Australia, Belgium, Colombia, Germany, Guinea, Indonesia, Japan, Namibia, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Romania, Senegal, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Uganda and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
120. At the same meeting, the representatives of India and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
121. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

122. At the same meeting, the representative of Ecuador made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
123. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/5).
Contribution of the United Nations system as a whole to the advancement of the business and human rights agenda and the dissemination and implementation of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: report of the Secretary-General
A/HRC/21/21/Corr.1
2, 3
Corrigendum
Contribution of the United Nations system as a whole to the advancement of the business and human rights agenda and the dissemination and implementation of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
