21/30 Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its decision 3/103 of 8 December 2006 on the elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee for this purpose,
Welcoming the progress achieved and noting the views expressed during the fourth session of the Ad Hoc Committee,
Recalling the need for adequate protection for victims of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance at the national, regional and international levels, as well as appropriate remedies while combating all forms of impunity in this regard,
Underlining the imperative need for the Ad Hoc Committee to elaborate complementary standards to the International Convention in accordance with paragraph 199 of the Durban Programme of Action,
1. Decides that the Ad Hoc Committee shall convene its fifth session from 8 to19 April 2013;

2. Takes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on its fourth session;[61]

3. Invites the Chairperson-Rapporteur of the Ad Hoc Committee to hold informal consultations, from within existing resources, with regional and political coordinators during the intersessional period between the fourth and fifth sessions of the Ad Hoc Committee, with the aim of preparing the fifth session and collecting concrete proposals for discussion on the topics of xenophobia, establishment, designation or maintaining of national mechanisms with competencies to protect against and prevent all forms and manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and procedural gaps with regard to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, in accordance with its mandate;

4. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to send out a questionnaire, from within existing resources, to gather information regarding the three topics discussed during the fourth session of the Ad Hoc Committee and in its report (xenophobia, national mechanisms and procedural gaps), including legal and judicial frameworks and practices, substantive and procedural measures in line with the mandate of the Ad Hoc Committee, and possible recommendations;

5. Invites the Office of the High Commissioner to post the responses to the questionnaire on its website and, in consultation with the Chairperson-Rapporteur, to prepare a summary of responses to the questionnaire received during the intersessional period for discussion by the Ad Hoc Committee at its fifth session;

6. Recommends that the Ad Hoc Committee, at its fifth session, discuss new topic(s) as contained in its report on its third session[62] or additional topic(s) submitted during the intersessional period;

7. Decides to remain seized of this priority issue.

Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination

850. At the 39th meeting, on 28 September 2012, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.28, sponsored by South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Cuba, Ethiopia, Guatemala and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Brazil, Honduras, Indonesia and Nicaragua joined the sponsors.

851. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa orally revised the draft resolution.
852. At the same meeting, the representative of Austria, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution, disassociating the aforementioned delegations from the consensus on the fourth preambular paragraph of the draft resolution.
853. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
854. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/30).
