21/33 From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 56/266 of 27 March 2002, in which the Assembly endorsed the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,
Recalling also General Assembly resolution 57/195 of 18 December 2002, in which the Assembly assigned responsibilities to the relevant United Nations institutions to ensure the effective implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action at the international level,
From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
855. At the 39th meeting, on 28 September 2012, the representative of South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.29, sponsored by South Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Cuba, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Brazil, Colombia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Thailand and Turkey joined the sponsors.

856. At the same meeting, the representative of South Africa orally revised the draft resolution.
857. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
858. At the same meeting, the representative of Austria, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
859. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 37 votes in favour, 1 against, with 9 abstentions.
860. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/33.
From rhetoric to reality: a global call for concrete action against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
A/HRC/21/L.30 and Rev.1
10
