21/18Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,
Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 18/10 of 29 September 2011, in which the Council requested the Advisory Committee to prepare a study on human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking and to present an interim report on the study at its twenty-first session, and the final study at its twenty-third session,
1. Takes note of the preliminary report submitted by the drafting group of the Advisory Committee to the Committee at its ninth session;[43]
2. Decides to grant the Advisory Committee further time to allow it to submit an interim report on the subject to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-second session and the final study at its twenty-fourth session.
Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
237. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2012, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.8, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cuba, India, Sri Lanka, the Russian Federation and the United Arab Emirates, on behalf of the Group of Arab States, joined the sponsors.
238. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
239. At the same meeting, the draft resolution as was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/18).
Promotion of the human rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas
240. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2012, the representative of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.23, sponsored by Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador and South Africa and co-sponsored by the Congo, Djibouti, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Palestine, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Angola, Argentina, Burkina Faso, the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Guinea, Mali and Uganda joined the sponsors.
241. At the same meeting, the representative of Bolivia (Plurinational State of) orally revised the draft resolution.
242. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
243. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
244. At the same meeting, the representatives of Austria (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Mexico, Norway and Senegal made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.
245. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the United States of America, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 23 votes in favour, 9 against, with 15 abstentions.

246. For the text as adopted and voting results, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/19.
247. At the same meeting, the representative of Thailand made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
Human rights and issues related to terrorist hostage-taking
A/HRC/21/L.9 and Rev.1
4
