21/13Panel discussion on the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other relevant international human rights instruments,

Recalling all relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, including Council resolution 19/20 of 23 March 2012 on the role of good governance in the promotion and protection of human right, as well as the United Nations Millennium Declaration,

Deeply concerned about the increasing negative impact of widespread corruption on the enjoyment of human rights,

Recognizing that corruption constitutes one of the obstacles to the effective promotion and protection of human rights, as well as to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development goals,

Welcoming the resolve of States parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, noting with interest the provisions of the Convention that have led to the development of a mechanism among States parties to review their progress in combating corruption, and welcoming also the commitment made by all States in the 2005 World Summit Outcome to make the fight against corruption a priority at all levels,

Welcoming also the joint statement on the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights made on behalf of one hundred and thirty four States Members of the United Nations at the twentieth session of the Human Rights Council,

1. Decides to convene, at its twenty-second session, from within existing resources, a panel discussion on the issue of the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights;

2. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to organize the above-mentioned panel discussion and to liaise with States, relevant United Nations bodies, agencies, treaty bodies and special procedures, in particular the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the United Nations Development Programme, international organizations, in particular the International Anti-Corruption Academy, relevant regional human rights mechanisms, as well as with civil society, non-governmental organizations and national human rights institutions, with a view to ensuring their participation in the panel discussion;

3. Also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to prepare and submit a summary report on the panel discussion to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-third session.

Panel discussion on the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights
155. At the 37th meeting, on 27 September 2012, the representative of Morocco introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.13, sponsored by Austria, Brazil, Indonesia, Morocco and Poland and co-sponsored by Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Montenegro, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Serbia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, France, Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Palestine, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
156. At the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally revised the draft resolution.
157. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
158. At the same meeting, the Chief of OHCHR Programme Support and Management Services made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution as orally revised.
159. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/13).
Panel discussion on the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights
A/HRC/21/L.14 and Rev.1
3
