21/6Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its resolutions 11/8 of 17 June 2009, 15/17 of 30 September 2010 and 18/2 of 28 September 2011 on preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights,

Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
124. At the 36th meeting, on 27 September 2012, the representatives of Burkina Faso, Colombia and New Zealand introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.10, sponsored by Burkina Faso, Colombia and New Zealand and co-sponsored by Andorra, Angola, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Costa Rica, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, South Sudan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Ukraine and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
125. At the same meeting, the representative of Guatemala made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
126. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia (also on behalf of Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Egypt, Iran, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mauritania, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen) made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote, disassociating the aforementioned delegations from the consensus on operative paragraphs 4 and 8 of the draft resolution.
127. At the same meeting, the representative of Mauritania also made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
128. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/6).
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
