21/27Technical assistance for the Sudan in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant instruments,

Reaffirming the obligation of States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Emphasizing that States have the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of all human rights,

Recognizing the developments taking place in the Sudan, and the record of the Government of the Sudan in the promotion and protection of human rights,

Noting with concern the human rights abuses and violations by all parties, in particular in the States of Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile,

Technical assistance for the Sudan in the field of human rights
883. At the 38th meeting, on 28 September 2012, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.4, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States. Subsequently, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Indonesia, Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Republic of Korea, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.
884. At the same meeting, the representative of Senegal orally revised the draft resolution.
885. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Austria (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Switzerland and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
886. At the same meeting the representative of the Sudan made a statement as the country concerned.
887. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
888. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/27).
Technical assistance for the Sudan in the field of human rights
