21/28Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and relevant human rights treaties,
Emphasizing that States have the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of all human rights,
Welcoming the commitments made by the Government of South Sudan to strengthen national mechanisms of promotion and protection of human rights, and calling on the Government to implement those commitments,
Recognizing the challenges of institution- and State-building facing South Sudan, including the protection of civilians, the administration of justice and the rule of law, the protection of the rights of women and the enjoyment of social and economic rights, and commending the steps being taken to address those challenges,
Welcoming the establishment of the South Sudan Human Rights Commission, and calling upon both the international community and the Government of South Sudan to support the South Sudan Human Rights Commission, through technical assistance and capacity-building programmes, with a view to ensuring its independence and enabling it to contribute to the promotion and protection of the human rights of the South Sudanese people, in accordance with the Paris Principles,
1. Takes note of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights;[60]

2. Calls upon the Government of South Sudan to strengthen ongoing cooperation with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan on issues pertaining to the promotion and protection of human rights;

3. Encourages the Government of South Sudan to ratify the main international and regional human rights instruments;

4. Encourages the continuous commitment of the Government of South Sudan to resolve all outstanding issues with regard to the provisions of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement of 2005 with the Government of the Sudan;

5. Requests Member States, relevant United Nations agencies and stakeholders to support, as a matter of urgency, the national efforts of the Government of South Sudan, in accordance with Human Rights Council resolution 18/17 of 29 September 2011 on technical assistance and capacity-building;

6. Requests the Office of the High Commissioner to provide South Sudan with the necessary technical support and training;

7. Also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to submit a written report on the progress of technical assistance and capacity-building in the field of human rights for South Sudan to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-third session.

Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
889. At the 38th meeting, on 28 September 2012, the representative of Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.7/rev.1, sponsored by Senegal, on behalf of the Group of African States, and co-sponsored by Georgia. Subsequently, Australia, Botswana, Canada, Indonesia, Norway, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the United States of America joined the sponsors.
890. At the same meeting, the representative of Senegal orally revised the draft resolution.
891. Also at the same meeting, the representative of South Sudan made a statement as the country concerned.
892. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
893. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/28).
Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights: report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
Technical assistance and capacity-building for South Sudan in the field of human rights
