21/23The human rights of older persons
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling General Assembly resolution 65/182 of 21 December 2010 on the follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing, in which the Assembly established an open-ended working group for the purpose of strengthening the protection of the human rights of older persons by considering the existing international framework of the human rights of older persons and identifying possible gaps and how best to address them, including by considering, as appropriate, the feasibility of further instruments and measures,

Recognizing that older persons face specific vulnerabilities and challenges in the enjoyment of all human rights, that current international initiatives on the matter have been insufficient and that enhanced measures are needed without delay,

Bearing in mind the Political Declaration and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing of 2002 and relevant General Assembly resolutions,

Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing[48] and of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the human rights of older persons,[49]

Recalling general comment No. 6 of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on the economic, social and cultural rights of older persons, as well as other relevant documents by treaty bodies,

Conscious that older persons represent a large and growing segment of the population and that greater attention is needed to the specific human rights challenges affecting them,

Concerned at the multiple forms of discrimination that may affect older persons and at the high incidence of poverty among this particularly vulnerable group, especially older women, persons with disabilities, persons of African descent, individuals belonging to indigenous peoples, persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, rural persons, persons living on the streets and refugees, among other groups,

1. Recognizes the challenges related to the enjoyment of all human rights that older persons face in areas such as prevention and protection against violence and abuse, social protection, food and housing, employment, legal capacity, access to justice, health support, long-term and palliative care, and that those challenges require in-depth analysis and action to address protection gaps;

2. Notes with appreciation multilateral, regional and subregional initiatives aimed at the promotion and protection of rights of older persons, including discussions on possible normative standards;

3. Calls upon all States to ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for older persons, including by taking measures to combat age discrimination, neglect, abuse and violence, and to address issues related to social integration and adequate health care, bearing in mind the crucial importance of family intergenerational interdependence, solidarity and reciprocity for social development;

4. Encourages all States to conduct their age-related policies through inclusive and participatory consultations with relevant stakeholders and social development partners in the interest of developing effective policies creating national policy ownership and consensus-building;

5. Calls upon all States to enhance their existing mechanisms related to the protection and promotion of human rights for older persons, including by adopting, as appropriate, legal or other dedicated mechanisms;

6. Encourages all States to raise awareness of the challenges facing the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons, and to ensure that older persons receive information about those rights;

7. Invites existing special procedures and encourages treaty bodies, within their existing mandates, to pay attention to the human rights of older persons;

8. Encourages all States to consider including in their national reports, to be submitted for the universal periodic review, information on the human rights of older persons;

9. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to organize, in Geneva, an intersessional public consultation on the promotion and protection of the human rights of older persons, with the participation of States Members of the United Nations, relevant international organizations, United Nations agencies and stakeholders, in order to receive information and share good practices on the matter;

10. Also requests the Office of the High Commissioner to present a summary report of the above-mentioned consultation to the Human Rights Council at its twenty-fourth session;

11. Decides to continue consideration of the question of human rights of older persons at its twenty-fourth session.

The human rights of older persons
179. At the 38th meeting, on 28 September 2012, the representatives of Argentina and Brazil, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/21/L.15, sponsored by Argentina and Brazil and co-sponsored by Angola, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, Chile, Cuba, Guatemala, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Armenia, Belarus, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt, Haiti, Indonesia, Italy, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Palestine, Panama, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
180. At the same meeting, the representatives of Argentina and Brazil orally revised the draft resolution.
181. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Austria, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
182. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
183. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 21/23).
The human rights of older persons
