10/30 Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling its decision 3/103 of 8 December 2006 in which, heeding the decision and instruction of the 2001 World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, it decided to establish the Ad Hoc Committee of the Human Rights Council on the Elaboration of Complementary Standards, with a mandate to elaborate, as a matter of priority and necessity, complementary standards in the form of either a convention or additional protocol(s) to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, filling the existing gaps in the Convention and also providing new normative standards aimed at combating all forms of contemporary racism, including incitement to racial and religious hatred,
Recalling also its resolution 3/2 of 8 December 2006, in which it reaffirmed that there would be no renegotiation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,
Welcoming the progress achieved during the meetings held during the first and second parts of the first session of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Human Rights Council on the Elaboration of Complementary Standards, and expressing the common desire of the international human rights system and the need to enhance the momentum of this process with a view to ensuring the timely fulfilment of the mandate of the Ad Hoc Committee,
Recalling the need to provide adequate protection for victims of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, as well as appropriate remedies while combating all forms of impunity in this regard,
1. Endorses the road map adopted by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Human Rights Council on the Elaboration of Complementary Standards during the second part of its first session as a guiding framework document for all future work in this regard;
2. Requests the Chairperson-Rapporteur to ensure that the outcome referred to in the road map is circulated in a timely manner to all stakeholders, in order that complementary standards to strengthen and update international instruments against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in all their aspects may be elaborated from the second session onwards;
3. Decides that all future sessions of the Ad Hoc Committee shall be convened in a consolidated period of 10 consecutive working days;
4. Also decides that the second session of the Ad Hoc Committee will be held in October 2009;
5. Further decides to retain this priority issue on its programme of work and to review progress at its thirteenth session.
45th meeting
Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
773. At the 45th meeting, on 27 March 2009, the representative of South Africa (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.8/Rev.1, sponsored by South Africa (on behalf of the Group of African States) and co-sponsored by Cuba, Indonesia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Bolivia and Pakistan joined the sponsors.
774. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Chile (also on behalf of Argentina and Uruguay) and Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council).
775. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 34 votes to 13. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
776. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/30.
Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
A/HRC/10/L.8/Rev.1
9
Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
Elaboration of complementary standards to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
