10/17 Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Deeply concerned at the suffering of the Syrian citizens in the occupied Syrian Golan due to the systematic and continuous violation of their fundamental and human rights by Israel since the Israeli military occupation of 1967,
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
737. At the 43rd meeting, on 26 March 2009, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Group of Arab States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.4, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Nicaragua, Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
738. At the same meeting, the representatives of Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic made statements as concerned countries.
739. Also at the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Canada and Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council).
740. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 33 votes to 1, with 13 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
Canada;
Abstaining:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
741. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/17.
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
A/HRC/10/15/Add.1
7
Addendum
A/HRC/10/16 and Corr.1
3
Report of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, Joy Ngozi Ezeilo
Human rights in the occupied Syrian Golan
