10/18 Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and affirming the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force,
Reaffirming that all States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter and as elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other applicable instruments,
Recalling relevant resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights, the Council, the Security Council and the General Assembly, reaffirming, inter alia, the illegality of the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories,
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
742. At the 43rd meeting, on 26 March 2009, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Group of Arab States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.5, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Bolivia, Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States). Subsequently, Belarus, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.
743. At the same meeting, the representative of Pakistan orally revised the draft resolution by modifying operative paragraphs 3 and 7.
744. Also at the same meeting, a general comment in relation to the draft resolution was made by the representative of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council).
745. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement in relation to the draft resolution as a concerned party.
746. Also at the same meeting, a statement in explanation of vote before the vote was made by the representative of Canada.
747. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Canada, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by 46 votes to 1. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
Canada.
748. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/18.
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in the occupied Syrian Golan
