10/20 Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
The Human Rights Council,
Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
754. At the 43rd meeting, on 26 March 2009, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Group of Arab States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.7, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Bolivia, Cuba, Nicaragua, Switzerland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States). Subsequently, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka and Sweden joined the sponsors.
755. At the same meeting, general comments in relation to the draft resolution were made by the representatives of Canada and Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council).
756. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement in relation to the draft resolution as a concerned country, and the representative of Palestine made a statement in relation to the draft resolution as a concerned party.
757. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/20).
Follow-up to Council resolution S-9/1 on the grave violations of human rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, particularly due to the recent Israeli military attacks against the occupied Gaza Strip
758. At the 43rd meeting, on 26 March 2009, the representative of Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Group of Arab States and Cuba) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.37, sponsored by Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference) and co-sponsored by Cuba and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States). Subsequently, Belarus, Bolivia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
759. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statement in relation to the draft resolution as a concerned country.
760. Also at the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Canada, Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), Japan and Switzerland.
761. At the request of the representative of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 33 votes to 1, with 13 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
Canada;
Abstaining:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cameroon, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
762. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/21.
Right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
