10/33 Situation of human rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services
The Human Rights Council,
Situation of human rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services
794. At the 45th meeting, on 27 March 2009, in accordance with rule 131 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the representative of Egypt requested that the Council consider and act on draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.3 before acting on draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.1.
795. At the same meeting, statements in connection with the motion proposed by Egypt were made by the representatives of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) and Egypt.
796. Also at the same meeting, a recorded vote was taken on the motion proposed by Egypt. The motion was carried by the Council by 30 votes to 15, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Zambia;
Against:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay;
Abstaining:
Argentina, Mexico.
797. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.3, sponsored by Egypt (on behalf of the Group of African States).
798. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) moved that an amendment be made to draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.3.
799. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt made a general comment on the draft amendment and the representative of Chile made a general comment on the draft amendment and the draft resolution.
800. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic Republic of the Congo made a statement as the concerned country.
801. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
802. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Egypt, a recorded vote was taken on the draft amendment. The draft amendment was rejected by 21 votes to 18, with 8 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Chile, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay;
Against:
Angola, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa;
Abstaining:
Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Jordan, Mauritius, Senegal, Zambia.
803. Also at the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote in relation to draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.3 were made by the representatives of Chile and Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council).
804. At the same meeting, at the request of Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council), a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 33 in favour, with 14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia;
Abstaining
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
805. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/33.
806. At the same meeting, the Council decided not to take action on draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.1.
Annexes

10/33 Situation of human rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services
1. In paragraphs 5 and 10 of draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.3 (adopted as resolution 10/33), the Council:
(a) Noted the report of the thematic special procedures presented by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the human rights of internally displaced persons, acting on behalf of the other six representatives and special rapporteurs, and invited them to report again to the Council on the development of the situation at its thirteenth session;
(b) Called on the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) to increase and enhance, through its presence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, its technical assistance programmes and activities, in consultation with the authorities of the country.
2. A total amount of $132,900 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to implement the activities called for by the Council in paragraph 5, as follows:
(a) Travel of the Special Representative to present the report of the seven experts to the Council, and one field mission of the seven mandate holders to the Democratic Republic of the Congo ($74,900);
(b) Travel of staff to accompany the mandate holders during the field mission ($44,000);
(c) Local transportation, security, communication and other miscellaneous expenses during the field mission ($14,000).
3. The requirements to implement the activities outlined in paragraph 2 above have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2008–2009. Since the period of the terms of the draft resolution extends into the biennium 2010–2011, the requirements for that period are expected to be met within the provisions included in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
4. The activities envisaged under paragraph 10 of the draft resolution would be implemented on the basis of available resources under the regular programme for technical cooperation or voluntary contributions that may be forthcoming under the Voluntary Fund for Advisory Services and Technical Assistance in the Field of Human Rights.
A/HRC/10/L.12 Assistance to Somalia in the field of human rights
5. Owing to the late submission of the revisions to the draft resolution, a formal statement of financial implications could not be prepared. If the draft resolution is adopted, there would be financial implications relating to the continuation of work of the independent expert. Resources for the work of the independent expert have, however, been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the present biennium; thus, there would be no additional appropriations required as a result of the adoption of the resolution.
Situation of human rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the strengthening of technical cooperation and consultative services
