10/16 Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and other human rights instruments,
Recalling all previous resolutions adopted by the Commission on Human Rights, the Council and the General Assembly on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including Council resolution 7/15 of 27 March 2008 and Assembly resolution 63/190 of 18 December 2008, and urging the implementation of those resolutions,
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
229. At the 43rd meeting, on 26 March 2009, the representatives of the Czech Republic (on behalf of the European Union, Japan and co-sponsors) and Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.27, sponsored by the Czech Republic and Japan and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Subsequently, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
230. At the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement in relation to the draft resolution as the concerned country.
231. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex III).
232. Also at the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Brazil, China, Cuba, Indonesia and Malaysia.
233. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by 26 votes to 6, with 15 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Bahrain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, France, Germany, Ghana, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
China, Cuba, Egypt, Indonesia, Nigeria,[5] Russian Federation;
Abstaining:
Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Djibouti, Gabon, India, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Senegal, South Africa.
234. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/16.
235. At the 44th meeting, on 27 March 2009, statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the representatives of Bangladesh, Chile, Egypt, India, Nigeria and Pakistan.
10/16 Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
14. In paragraphs 3, 8 and 9 of draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.27 (adopted as resolution 10/16), the Council:
(a) Decided to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in accordance with Council resolution 7/15, for a period of one year;
(b) Requested the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with all assistance and adequate staffing necessary to carry out his mandate effectively and to ensure that this mechanism works with the support of OHCHR;
(c) Invited the Special Rapporteur to submit regular reports on the implementation of his mandate to the Council and the General Assembly.
15. A total amount of $58,400 per annum ($116,800 per biennium) would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to implement the activities arising from the terms of the draft resolution, as follows:
(a) Travel of the Special Rapporteur for consultations and to attend the annual meeting of special procedures, to present his/her report to the Council and the General Assembly, two missions per year to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea ($42,200 per annum, or $84,400 per biennium);
(b) Travel of staff to accompany the Special Rapporteur during field missions ($10,200 per annum, or $20,400 per biennium);
(c) Local transportation, security, communication and other miscellaneous expenses during field missions ($6,000 per annum, or $12,000 per biennium).
16. The requirements to implement the activities for the mandate of the Special Rapporteur have been included under section 23 (Human Rights) of the programme budget for the biennium 2008–2009. Since the period of the terms of the draft resolution extends to the biennium 2010–2011, it is considered that the requirements for that period would be met within the provisions included in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010–2011. No additional appropriations would be required as a result of the adoption of the draft resolution.
17. With regard to paragraph 8, attention is drawn to the provisions of section VI of General Assembly resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, and subsequent resolutions, the most recent of which is resolution 62/236 of 22 December 2007, in which the Assembly reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters, and reaffirmed the role of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
Situation of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
