10/29 The Social Forum
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling all previous resolutions and decisions adopted on the Social Forum by the former Commission on Human Rights and its Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, as well as by the Economic and Social Council,
The Social Forum
252. At the 45th meeting, on 27 March 2009, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/10/L.22, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Belarus, Bolivia, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua, Panama, Sri Lanka, Togo, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Algeria, Brazil and the Sudan joined the sponsors.
253. At the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil, Chile and Germany (on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council) made general comments on the draft resolution.
254. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 10/29).
Publication of reports completed by the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights
255. At the 45th meeting, on 27 March 2009, the representative of the Czech Republic, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft decision A/HRC/10/L.33/Rev.1, sponsored by the Czech Republic and co-sponsored by Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.
256. At the same meeting, the representative of the Czech Republic orally revised the draft decision by deleting the third preambular paragraph.
257. Also at the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the representatives of Bangladesh, China, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippines and the Russian Federation.
258. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of India, a recorded vote was taken on draft decision A/HRC/10/L.33/Rev.1. The draft decision, as orally revised, was adopted by 29 votes to 3, with 15 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Egypt, France, Gabon, Germany, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay;
Against:
Brazil, India, Mauritius;
Abstaining:
Angola, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Ghana, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Nigeria, Philippines, Russian Federation, Senegal, South Africa, Zambia.
259. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, decision 10/117.
Reports of the Advisory Committee
260. At the 45th meeting, on 27 March 2009, the President of the Council made a statement in relation to the reports of the Advisory Committee on its first and second sessions (for the text of the President’s statement, see part one, chapter III, PRST/10/1).
The Social Forum
