11/8. Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
Reaffirming the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development and their Review Conferences and the targets and commitments regarding the reduction of maternal mortality and universal access to reproductive health, including those contained in the 2000 Millennium Declaration (General Assembly resolution 55/2) and the 2005 World Summit Outcome (General Assembly resolution 60/1),
Reaffirming also the Millennium Development Goals, in particular the Goals on improving maternal health, promoting gender equality and empowering women, reducing child and infant mortality and the development of a global partnership,[1]
Recalling the obligations of States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Their Families,
Convinced that increased political will and commitment, cooperation and technical assistance at the international and national levels are urgently required to reduce the unacceptably high global rate of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity,
Recognizing the leading role of the World Health Organization in maternal health and the work under the annual World Health Assembly agenda item on the monitoring of the achievement of the health-related Millennium Development Goals,
Recognizing also that the unacceptably high global rate of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity is a health, development and human rights challenge, and that a human rights analysis of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and the integration of a human rights perspective in international and national responses to maternal mortality and morbidity could contribute positively to the common goal of reducing this rate, with a view to eliminating preventable maternal mortality and morbidity,
Welcoming the ongoing efforts of the United Nations human rights treaty bodies to highlight the human rights aspects of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity, including those of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the Human Rights Committee, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and of the special procedures, in particular those described in the report of the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health (A/61/338),
Recognizing that the Council has a constructive role to play in raising awareness of the human rights aspects of the unacceptably high global rate of maternal mortality and morbidity and in supporting, promoting and enhancing existing national and international efforts to reduce this rate,
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
130. At the 27th meeting, on 17 June 2009, the representative of Colombia introduced draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.16/Rev.1, sponsored by Colombia and New Zealand and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Canada, Chile, Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Andorra, Cameroon, Costa Rica, Cuba, Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Jordan, Latvia, Mauritius, Morocco, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia and South Africa joined the sponsors.
131. At the same meeting, the representatives of Chile and Egypt made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
132. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
133. At the same meeting, the draft resolution was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 11/8).
11/8. Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
23. In paragraph 6 of draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.16 (adopted as resolution 11/8), the Council requested OHCHR to prepare a thematic study on preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights, in collaboration with the World Health Organization and the United Nations Population Fund, as well as all relevant stakeholders, including the United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Bank, and requested that the study include identification of the human rights dimensions of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity; an overview of initiatives and activities within the United Nations system to address all causes of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity; identification of how the Council could add value to existing initiatives through a human rights analysis; identification of options for the Council to support and increase existing efforts in the United Nations system, including efforts to achieve Millennium Development Goal 5 on improving maternal health, and recommendations for better addressing the human rights dimension of preventable maternal mortality and morbidity throughout the United Nations system.
24. To implement the activities called for in paragraph 6 of the resolution, an estimated $73,300 would be required under section 23 (Human Rights) to provide for consultancy services. Although provisions have not been included under section 23 of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 to implement activities called for in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution, the Secretariat will review the potential absorptive capacity to meet the estimated requirements of $73,300 from within section 23 of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011, which will be considered by the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. The determination of the absorptive capacity will be made in the report of the Secretary-General on the revised estimates of requirements arising from the decisions and resolutions adopted by the Human Rights Council for 2009, which will be reported subsequently to the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.
A/HRC/11/L.19. Amendments to draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.17 on the situation of human rights in the Sudan
25. With regard to the amendments proposed under draft text A/HRC/11/L.19, the adoption of the amendments would replace the current mandate of Special Rapporteur with that of an independent expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan. The related financial implications would amount to a total of $64,600 per year. However, the requirements for that mandate have been included in the programme budget for 2008-2009 and requested under the proposed programme budget for 2010-2011; therefore, there would be no additional appropriations as a result of the adoption of the amendments proposed.
Annex III

Agenda

Item 1. Organizational and procedural matters

Item 2. Annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and reports of the Office of the High Commissioner and the Secretary-General

Item 3. Promotion and protection of all human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development

Item 4. Human rights situations that require the Council’s attention

Item 5. Human rights bodies and mechanisms

Item 6. Universal periodic review

Item 7. Human rights situation in Palestine and other occupied Arab territories

Item 8. Follow-up to and implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action

Item 9. Racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance, follow-up to and implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action

Item 10. Technical assistance and capacity-building.

Annex IV

List of documents issued for the eleventh session of the Human Rights Council
Documents issued in the general series
Symbol
Agenda item


A/HRC/11/1 and Corr.1
1
Annotations to the agenda for the eleventh session of the Human Rights Council: note by the Secretary-General
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
A/HRC/11/L.16/Rev.1
3
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
A/HRC/11/L.17 and Corr.1
4
Preventable maternal mortality and morbidity and human rights
A/HRC/11/L.17 and Corr.1
4
