11/9. The human rights of migrants in detention centres
The Human Rights Council,
Recalling previous resolutions of the General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and the Council on the protection of the human rights of migrants and the work of various special mechanisms of the Council that have reported on the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants, particularly those held in detention centres,
Aware of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants (A/HRC/11/7), which focuses on the protection of children in the context of migration,
Aware also of the report of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (A/HRC/7/4),
Emphasizing the importance of addressing the situation of migrants in detention centres and in administrative detention, which creates conditions for the potential violation of their human rights, through a comprehensive, integrated, concerted and balanced approach,
1. Decides to hold a panel discussion on the matter at its twelfth session, with equitable geographic and gender participation of Governments, relevant experts and representatives of civil society, including national institutions;
2. Invites the members of the above-mentioned panel:
(a) To discuss the current trends, good practices, challenges and possible approaches to address the issue of the detention of migrants and to explore ways to promote and protect their human rights;
(b) To elaborate on how to reduce the recourse to and duration of detention of persons who enter or remain in a country in an irregular manner, as well as on how to provide them with appropriate access to due legal process;
3. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide the necessary assistance and support for holding the panel.
29th meeting 18 June 2009 [Adopted without a vote. See part II, chap. III.]
The human rights of migrants in detention centres
134. At the 29th meeting, on 18 June 2009, the President informed the Council that the draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.4 has been moved under agenda item 3.
135. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt (on behalf of the Group of African States) introduced draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.4, sponsored by Egypt (on behalf of the Group of African States) and co-sponsored by Brazil, Cuba, Haiti and Pakistan. Subsequently, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Ecuador, Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
136. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Egypt (on behalf of the Group of African States) orally revised the draft resolution.
137. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution (see annex II).
138. At the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 10/9).
Draft guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights
139. At the 29th meeting, on 18 June 2009, the representative of France (also on behalf of Albania, Belgium, Chile, Morocco, Peru, the Philippines, Romania and Senegal) made a statement in relation to draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.14, sponsored by France and co-sponsored by Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Uruguay.
140. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of France, the draft resolution was deferred for consideration by the Council at its twelfth session.
The human rights of migrants in detention centres
