11/5. The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
The Human Rights Council,
Guided by the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and other relevant international human rights instruments,
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
116. At the 27th meeting, on 17 June 2009, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.9, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. Subsequently, Belarus, China and Senegal joined the sponsors.
117. At the same meeting, the representative of Germany, on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
118. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Germany, on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.9. The draft resolution was adopted by 31 votes in favour, 13 against, with 2 abstentions. The voting was as follows:
In favour:
Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritius, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Uruguay, Zambia;
Against:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
Abstaining:
Chile, Mexico.
119. For the text as adopted, see part one, chapter I, resolution 11/5.
The right to education: follow-up to Human Rights Council resolution 8/4
120. At the 27th meeting, on 17 June 2009, the representative of Portugal introduced draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.12, sponsored by Portugal and co-sponsored by Albania, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Chile, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Andorra, Finland, Guatemala, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Mauritius, Pakistan, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Timor-Leste, Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined the sponsors.
121. At the same meeting, the representative of Portugal orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 10.
122. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 11/6).
Guidelines for the alternative care of children
123. At the 27th meeting, on 17 June 2009, the representative of Brazil introduced draft resolution A/HRC/11/L.13, sponsored by Brazil and co-sponsored by Angola, Argentina, Austria, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Guatemala, Honduras, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Palestine, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal, the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Somalia, Switzerland, Ukraine and Uruguay. Subsequently, Cuba, Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Greece, Nigeria, South Africa, Turkey and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) joined the sponsors.
124. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil orally revised the draft resolution by modifying paragraph 2.
125. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China and Germany, on behalf of States Members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.
126. At the same meeting, the representative of Canada made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.
127. Also at the same meeting, the draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (for the text as adopted, see part one, chap. I, resolution 11/7).
128. At the 29th meeting, on 18 June 2009, the representative of Japan made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.
129. At the same meeting, the representatives of Finland and the United States of America made general remarks in relation to the adopted resolution.
The effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights
